The District economy grew moderately overall in recent weeks, although activity varied by sector. Manufacturing production continued to expand but at a somewhat slower pace. Revenues at non-retail services firms steadied at moderate growth, and tourism strengthened. Retail sales contracted, with the notable exception of robust light vehicle sales. Lending remained stable, with a slight uptick in demand for residential mortgages. The residential real estate sector generally strengthened, and commercial real estate and construction markets improved. Cold, wet weather hindered spring plantings by farmers, while oil and natural gas production maintained a moderate pace during the past six weeks. Labor markets were mixed since our last report. Manufacturers' input and finished goods prices moved up at a slightly slower rate, and wage increases also slowed. The pace of price change slowed at services firms, while wage increases in that sector were more widespread. Retail prices rose more slowly, and average retail wages declined.
Tourism generally increased over the past month, although most areas reported delayed spring weather. Cold weather in the nation's capital moved the Cherry Blossom Festival's peak bloom time into April. A contact on the outer banks of North Carolina commented that despite cool weather, Easter and spring break brought plenty of tourists. In addition, an upscale resort in western North Carolina had higher bookings. A contact in Charleston, South Carolina noted that the addition of a national airline is expected to strengthen the local hospitality industry. Several hoteliers and rental agents across North Carolina expected to be able to raise transient rates by three to six percent this year, but they anticipated a decline in government-rate bookings as a result of sequestration.
Commercial real estate and construction markets improved since our last report. A Richmond Realtor reported a steady increase in leasing activity. A source in Charlotte cited a rise in land and retail investment transactions and more hospitality-related renovations. Most contacts described a tight supply of Class A office space, with positive absorption and declining vacancy rates. Several Realtors said that discounts could still be found for Class B or C space. A representative of a large construction firm in Baltimore reported that activity was very strong, especially for healthcare buildings and data centers, and the outlook was "extremely positive." A contact in the Washington, D.C. area also reported several large projects under construction.
Conventional oil and natural gas production maintained a moderate pace and the rig count in West Virginia was little changed since our last report. Coal production declined. A source in West Virginia attributed the drop to displacement of coal by natural gas, although coal exports had partially offset lower domestic demand.
