The economy of the Eighth District has expanded at a moderate pace since our previous report. Recent reports of planned activity in manufacturing have been positive, while recent reports of planned activity in the service sector have been mixed. Residential real estate market conditions have continued to improve throughout most of the District, and commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have also improved in many areas of the District. Total lending at a sample of small and midsized District banks remained largely unchanged from mid-December 2012 to mid-March 2013.
Reports of planned activity in the District's service sector have been mixed since our previous report. Firms in social and legal services reported plans for new hiring and expansion in the District. In contrast, firms in religious, information technology, business support, healthcare distribution, data processing, print and publishing, and transportation services reported plans to lay-off employees. Reports from retail contacts showed increases in sales and new store openings. Sales reports from auto dealers have generally been positive, and a number of contacts in the District announced plans to open new dealership locations.
Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have continued to improve throughout most of the District. A contact in northeast Arkansas reported that commercial real estate activity was strong in the Jonesboro and Paragould area but remained flat in other areas. Contacts in Louisville noted that vacancy rates of commercial and industrial properties improved. A contact in central Arkansas reported an increase of commercial real estate activity in Little Rock, and a contact in St. Louis reported strong office leasing activity in the northwest and south portions of St. Louis County. Commercial and industrial construction activity is picking up throughout most of the District. Contacts in south central Kentucky continued to report that commercial real estate construction was strong in the downtown Bowling Green area, while contacts in Louisville reported that industrial real estate construction was strong in the Shepherdsville area. A contact in Arkansas also reported several ongoing commercial construction projects in southwest and west Little Rock.

