The Ninth District economy grew moderately. Increased activity was noted in consumer spending, tourism, professional services and manufacturing. Construction and real estate grew at a fast pace, the energy and agriculture sectors were steady at high levels, while mining slowed. Labor markets tightened somewhat, and wage increases were moderate. Overall price increases were modest.
The winter tourism season finished stronger than last year. Ample snow cover and cold temperatures kept winter tourism active during March in northern Minnesota and Wisconsin. A travel agency in Minnesota noted that leisure travel to warm-weather destinations was softer than last year as airfare was up from a year ago; however, bookings to Europe were higher.
Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the last report. A Minneapolis-St. Paul area commercial real estate broker noted increased strength in the office and industrial markets. Minneapolis-St. Paul office vacancy rates during the first quarter of 2013 were down 1.9 percentage points from a year ago to 17.7 percent. A Fargo broker noted that recent activity has increased a "fair" amount and that office vacancy is at 4.8 percent and warehouse vacancy is at 1.6 percent. Residential real estate market activity increased at a strong pace. Recent home sales were up 12 percent from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was down 30 percent, and median sale prices rose 16 percent. In the Sioux Falls area, March home sales were up 5 percent, inventory was down 18 percent and the median sale price increased 6 percent relative to a year earlier.
Overall wage increases were moderate. According to a recent St. Cloud (Minn.) Area Quarterly Business Report, 48 percent of respondents expect to increase compensation over the next six months, while 49 percent expect no change. In last year's survey, 42 percent expected to increase compensation, while 54 percent expected no change. A contract agreement was recently reached with a union representing janitors in Minnesota that would improve wages and health care coverage.
Overall price increases were modest. Minnesota gasoline prices decreased about 20 cents per gallon from late February to early April. Some metals prices also decreased since the last report. Meanwhile, bank directors noted increases in health care insurance costs. Prices for framing lumber have increased steadily over the past couple months.
