Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new vehicle sales have remained fairly strong since the last report. February sales were roughly on par with comparable 2012 levels, despite an exceptionally strong performance a year ago; March appears to be shaping up as a solid month as well. Used vehicle sales are reported to have softened a bit, but this is largely attributed to attractive deals in the new car market. Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases are reported to be in good shape.
Tourism activity has been mostly robust since the last report. Manhattan hotels report continued brisk business in February and March: revenue per room was up nearly 15 percent, driven by a combination of high and rising occupancy rates and escalating room rates. Hotels in the outer boroughs continue to see fairly strong business, partly reflecting ongoing demand from Sandy recovery workers, and also from displaced residents. On the other hand, Broadway theaters report some weakening in both attendance and revenues since mid-February; they have been running below comparable 2012 levels by roughly 8 percent and 4 percent, respectively. Finally, consumer confidence in the region has ebbed somewhat. The Conference Board's survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows confidence retreating in March after rising in February, and Siena College's survey of New York State residents shows a similar pattern.
Commercial real estate markets across the District have also shown signs of improvement in the first quarter. Office vacancy rates continued to decline across Manhattan, and asking rents rose--particularly in the Midtown South area--while vacancy rates edged down and asking rents were little changed in Long Island and northern New Jersey. Office vacancy rates in New York City and Long Island are currently at their lowest levels in a number of years. In contrast, office vacancy rates remain near multi-year highs in northern New Jersey, as well as in Westchester and Fairfield counties; one New Jersey contact describes new construction activity there as "moribund". In New York City, though, commercial construction activity has been more robust, particularly in Lower Manhattan, reflecting ongoing work on the World Trade Center complex and a new major transit hub and complex. Industrial markets have been mixed: vacancy rates are down and rents up fairly sharply on Long Island, whereas both are little changed at sluggish levels in northern New Jersey, and in Westchester and Fairfield counties.
There are growing signs of improvement in the job market. In general, more business contacts indicate that they plan to increase than reduce staff in the months ahead. A major employment agency reports that demand for temps remains strong, and that firms are also hiring more full-time workers, as well as transitioning more temps to full-time positions. Qualified job candidates are increasingly hard to find, and more job-seekers are now getting multiple job offers. An employment agency contact reports increased hiring activity from a broad cross-section of industries, including financial services and publishing, which had been sluggish. Another contact in the employment services industry notes particularly strong demand for IT workers. While starting salary offers remain fairly stable in general, employers are reportedly often willing to pay top dollar for tech workers with specialized skills.

