Overview The pace of economic activity in the Tenth District remains relatively slow. Retail sales continue to improve, but new car sales are soft. Manufacturers' input prices are still rising, and availability is not a problem. Drilling activity, though modestly higher than in March, is still below a year earlier. Housing construction and home sales are relatively weak, and mortgage demand is low. Loan demand at commercial banks is flat to up slightly, and deposits are somewhat higher. The winter wheat crop will fall well short of normal, while prospects for spring crops depend on timely rainfall. Retail Sales Most merchandisers report retail sales performance has improved from a year ago and over the last three months, and they expect some additional improvement the rest of the year. Some retailers report price increases that reflect higher costs, and they expect further price increases in the future. Most respondents are satisfied with inventory levels and do not expect to make any changes. Automobile dealers generally report soft sales over the last month. Adequate dealer and customer financing is available, with some very attractive customer financing. Most dealers are trying to trim inventory levels because of soft sales. Sales are expected to continue at about their current pace. Manufacturing All respondents report input prices are higher than a year ago and three months ago. Most respondents expect little change, however, over the next three months. Firms report no difficulties in acquiring materials, and most anticipate no future problems with availability; some report longer lead times, however. Inventory levels are generally satisfactory. Most plants are operating close to full capacity, but no bottlenecks or labor shortages are reported. Energy While the recent firming in oil prices appears to have helped the District's energy sector, the industry remains cautious due to uncertainty about the implications of OPEC's recent meeting. After increasing sharply from only 211 in March, the average number of active drilling rigs in the district fell from 241 in April to 234 in May. Exploration and development activity thus stands about 10 percent below the level of a year earlier. Housing Activity and Finance District housing starts are down from one year ago, and most homebuilders report unchanged activity from a month earlier. Single- family construction continues to exceed multi-family construction. New home sales are down slightly, and prices remain about stable. Most respondents are uncertain about future activity because of uncertainty about future interest rates. Most respondents from district savings and loan institutions report net outflows of deposits over the last month. Net deposit flows are generally similar to a month earlier, but are mixed relative to a year ago. Respondents expect deposits to be steady or lower in the near term. Mortgage demand is low in most areas and is generally expected to remain low. Some respondents attribute low mortgage demand and depressed real estate prices to sales of foreclosed properties by HUD. Nearly all respondents report slightly lower mortgage rates, but most expect fairly stable rates in the coming months. Banking District commercial banks report widely varied behavior of loan demand last month, with more respondents reporting increases in loan demand than decreases. While responses varied for all loan categories, some increase in consumer and home mortgage loan demand was apparent, as was a decrease in commercial real estate loan demand. District banks have begun to join in the recent reduction of prime lending rates, but almost no banks report changes in their consumer lending rates. Deposits grew last month, with the increase concentrated in large time deposits and small time and savings deposits: transactions deposits were constant or decreasing at most responding banks. Agriculture Crop growing conditions are a major concern in the Tenth District. Despite widespread rainfall during the past month, the district's winter wheat harvest is expected to be much smaller than normal. Wheat yields in southwestern Oklahoma, where the harvest is already nearing completion, are expected to be only two-thirds of normal. Wheat yields in Kansas and Nebraska are generally expected to range from a fourth to a half of normal, and severe drought in some areas has caused the wheat crop to be abandoned. The small wheat crops likely to reduce incomes of many district businesses, including grain elevators, where storage income has already been depressed by low grain inventories. Railroad cars used to transport grain sit idle in parts of the district. The financial condition of grain-dependent businesses now appears to depend or a more normal harvest of other crops. Recent rainfall has improved prospects for pastures in spring- planted crops. Planting of spring crops in the district is nearly complete and. last month's rainfall improved growing conditions. Soil moisture reserves are low, however, and prospects for these crops depend on the amount and timeliness of rainfall during the rest of the growing season. Dry weather has produced poor grazing conditions throughout the district. Diminished feed supplies are leading some ranchers to sell more cattle than normal to reduce the size of their herds. Still, few herds have been completely liquidated as a result of feed shortages.