Summary Indicators of overall business activity in the District are giving mixed signals. Payroll employment in the five states, through April, trended upward from late 1988 at a somewhat slower rate than last year, about in line with the nation. However, employment measured in the household survey for Illinois and Michigan fell in May for the third straight month. Chicago-area purchasing managers reporting increased production in May continued to outnumber those noting declines, but by a smaller margin than since early 1987, and orders and backlogs slipped. Motor vehicle sales below last year's pace, despite attractive buyer incentives, have prompted limited production cuts. Markets for many types of industrial machinery still appear strong, though weakening has been reported in some equipment markets, including light construction equipment, communications equipment, and some other electronic types. Industrial construction is strong in the region. Office construction continues at a brisk pace in downtown Chicago. Recent rains have improved crop prospects in most District states. Equipment Demand continues vigorous in many industrial equipment markets. Orders for industrial diesels, for applications other than in large trucks, are described as strong in domestic markets and for export, except from manufacturers of light construction equipment, reflecting the slowdown in housing construction. Demand at producers of highway construction equipment was characterized as very strong. Robust orders have been reported recently at foundries, metal fabricators, and machinery builders. Incoming orders for machine tools have slipped, particularly from foreign buyers, but backlogs remain far above year-earlier levels. One large machine tool builder expects its order backlog to support continued increases in shipments in this year's second half. Orders have weakened for communications equipment and some other electronic types. Construction Indicators of construction in the District continue to show a relatively robust pace of activity. For example, year-over-year increases in shipments of cement and gypsum board to District states have been larger than nationwide (though this partly reflects the mild January weather in the region). Strong demand for downtown Chicago office space and relatively few completions of new buildings this year have lowered the vacancy rate (as defined in two recent surveys) to less than 10 percent, encouraging plans for additional buildings. The market for Chicago-area industrial property is also strong. In Detroit, ground was broken recently for a $1 billion auto assembly plant, a replacement for an aging plant. Preliminary site work is very strong for office buildings and industrial facilities in the Milwaukee area. Construction activity on houses is said to be holding up well around Chicago but sales of existing homes slipped this spring as mortgage interest rates climbed above 11 percent. Rates typically offered on 30-year fixed-rate loans have since fallen to a 10 percent to 10-1/4 percent range, and below 10 percent at some area lenders. Motor Vehicles Sales of motor vehicles continue to trail year-ago levels despite recently enhanced incentives which a contact described as the most attractive for buyers in at least 2-1/2 years. Extended model changeover shutdowns have been announced for some District assembly plants; another plant was recently shut for one week to control inventories; and a planned start-up of a second shift at a car assembly plant was cancelled. But overall production cutbacks have been modest. Heavy truck plants have been running close to effective capacity. Steel Steel demand continues strong. A Chicago-area integrated mill is hiring summer help, for the first time in about a decade, to cut excess overtime of regular employees. However, there have also been reports recently of some slippage in orders, perhaps only seasonal. Steelmakers have announced additional large investments, including another new plant to be built in Indiana and major upgrading of an existing facility in that state. Retailing A contact described retail sales recently as satisfactory, but generally less so than earlier this year. Cooler weather may have deterred some retail sales in the Midwest in May. This retailer viewed consumer spending as supported by good income gains this year, but indicated concern about surveys showing increased consumer pessimism regarding inflation, interest rates, and home buying prospects. Agriculture Early season crop prospects over most of the District have benefited considerably from recent rains. In Indiana, however, the rains have further delayed the wind-down of the planting season and stressed some early-planted crops. Late spring frosts apparently caused some fruit and vegetable losses in Michigan. While no official tabulations have been made, some observers characterize the losses as "less than expected." Labor Markets District labor market conditions show considerable diversity. Unemployment has declined in the District, as utilization of labor resources has pressed against available supply in many areas. Unskilled industrial labor, for example, is in tight supply in Chicago's western suburbs, and pay levels have been pushed upward, squeezing profits of employers competing with firms in lower labor- cost areas. The seemingly chronic shortage of some industrial skills, such as experienced welders and machinists, may have been exacerbated by the industrial upturn of the past 2 years. Employers in local areas where labor is tight, parts of Indiana, for example, are advertising for skilled workers in areas where there were sizable lay-offs a few years ago. Job-hopping in pursuit of higher pay reportedly has increased. But employers in some industries continue to press for concessions, indicating a willingness to shut facilities or replace striking workers in order to bring down labor costs, in some cases citing costs at competitors. Industries in the District in which this has been taking place include auto parts manufacturing, grocery stores, and truck transport. Jobs remain hard to find in some white-collar occupations. Staffing cutbacks or curtailments on hiring continue in response to, or to stave off the threat of, corporate reorganizations.