Summary The pace of growth in the Twelfth Federal Reserve District continues to be healthy, with mixed signals regarding a possible slowing rate of growth. Despite the relatively good condition of the District's economy, two thirds of the business leaders contacted expect weakening national growth during the next four quarters. Consumer spending growth is reported to be healthy overall, despite weakness in sales of "big ticket" items such as cars, furniture, and home electronics. Manufacturing activity continues to be robust, with bottlenecks and tight raw materials supplies reported in several sectors. However, some early signs of falling export orders have emerged. Agricultural activity also is strong overall, despite rising prices for many inputs. Lumber production is falling as log supplies continue to tighten, but capacity continues tight at many paper mills. Real estate markets are strong in the coastal states, although a few respondents note heightened concerns or slowing activity associated with relatively high interest rates. In Arizona, however, commercial and residential real estate markets continue to languish. Most western banks report solid loan demand, while many banks are raising rates on certificates of deposit to attract sufficient funds. Business Sentiment Two thirds of the western business leaders contacted expect GNP growth to be weaker than its historical average during the next four quarters, although very few anticipate a recession. Most of the remaining third expect GNP growth close to its average pace. District business leaders still expect performance in the business investment and home-building sectors to weaken slightly during the next year, although they are more upbeat about these sectors than they were in the previous survey. Consumer Spending Consumer spending continues to grow at a healthy pace. Nevertheless, several respondents report a moderating rate of growth, which they attribute primarily to relative weakness in sales of such "big ticket" items as furniture and home electronics. Some retailers have expressed concern that inventories have gotten too heavy, while others report no inventory problems. Prices and wages are reported to be relatively stable, with prices held down in part by the recent increase in the value of the dollar. Many respondents report weak car sales, although sales in some parts of the District are strong. No upward price pressure is evident, as incentives are required to keep sales volumes up. Manufacturing Bottlenecks continue in the commercial aircraft industry. Supplies are difficult to obtain, skilled labor is in short supply, and commercial aircraft ordered today cannot be delivered for about four years. Industry participants assert that these bottlenecks are putting upward pressure on Seattle-area wages and on materials prices. One aerospace executive reports that his firm's contracts with European and Japanese suppliers are priced in those nations' currencies, so the recent increase in the dollar's value has reduced his costs. In contrast, the cutbacks in defense spending are beginning to affect some California firms. One firm recently announced layoffs, and the competition for engineers reportedly has diminished. Heavy machinery is selling well, with reports of increases in sales volumes of 10 to 15 percent above last year's levels. Some manufacturers report that material costs have risen 5 to 12 percent, due primarily to higher costs for aluminum, stainless steel and brass. One respondent notes persistent shortages of titanium dioxide and ethylene glycol, important raw materials for paints and coatings. List prices for paints and coatings have increased about 5 percent, but price increases negotiated for large projects are closer to 1 or 2 percent. A California banker reports that some customers in Japan are starting to cancel orders for U.S.-made manufactured goods. Some of these customers have been faced with price increases of about 21 percent (5 percent reflecting US inflation and 16 percent due to currency changes). Other Japanese customers are asking for price reductions, but because most American companies' profit margins are too small to make sizable price concessions, they are opting to forgo some export business. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Agriculture generally continues healthy, although the costs of interest, machinery, fuel, fertilizer, and feed grains remain relatively high. Few changes in exports due to the higher dollar have been noted as yet. Environmental and legal issues are combining with strong log exports to restrict log supplies and reduce lumber production. Capacity continues tight at most paper mills. However, new newsprint production capacity and soft newsprint demand have forced producers to back down from planned price increases this year, and one negotiated discount reduced the effective price by 3.5 percent. Construction and Real Estate Most reports suggest that California's real estate markets continue strong. Smaller California cities have not seen the 20 percent increases in home prices common in larger cities, but construction activity continues strong. However, relatively high interest rates reportedly have caused builders to become more cautious about committing to new projects. The limited supply of commercial buildings in the San Francisco Bay Area is causing values to escalate at about a 5 percent annual rate. In Southern California, a developer reports that commercial construction activity continues at a strong pace, although leasing activity has slowed during the past year. Most reports from Washington and Oregon indicate that real estate markets in the Northwest also are strong. Home prices are reported up, with strong construction activity as well. In contrast, reports from Arizona indicate that land values there continue to drop, and sales of commercial real estate are deeply discounted. Financial Sector Most western banks report strong profits, with solid loan demand despite relatively high interest rates. Some bankers report increased demand for commercial loans. Several bankers report reduced balances held in checking accounts, passbook savings, and money market deposit accounts. The combination of strong loan demand and reduced deposits is leading banks to raise rates on certificates of deposit in order to attract sufficient funds. Only a few respondents report that high interest rates have limited borrowing activity. In Oregon, for example, small businesses reportedly are borrowing less or not at all, choosing to postpone capital equipment purchases or expensive acquisitions rather than pay the high rates.