During recent months, economic conditions in the Ninth District held steady. In some areas, employment grew better than seasonal norms. Both consumer spending and tourist activity made some gains. Resource-related industry performance remained mixed. Although crop conditions have generally been excellent, higher yields will probably lead to lower market prices. Employment The most recent data indicate that the Ninth District's labor markets continued to improve. Seasonally adjusted employment in the district rose in June, driving the unemployment rate down from 5.9 to 5.6 percent. For the first time in several months, the Minneapolis-St. Paul metro area's unemployment rate fell below its year-earlier level, and even manufacturing employment there rose for the first time in over a year. In South Dakota, employment in the service industry hit a record June high. Among district states, only North Dakota failed to post employment gains during June. And despite growth in June, Montana's second-quarter employment was lower than its 1985 level. Consumer Spending Scattered reports suggest that over the summer, retail sales of general merchandise may have strengthened a bit. One retail chain reports a July sales increase of 10 percent, with no inventory accumulation. Another retail chain reports August sales to be a bit stronger than sales earlier this year. Both chains had successful back-to-school promotions, and both noted a pickup in cash sales relative to proprietary credit card sales. Motor vehicle sales in the district have been good in metro areas but poor in rural areas. One large domestic manufacturer reports that its district sales of cars and trucks are still above last year's levels. Another manufacturer says that its sales in farm communities were flat in July but expects sales to increase after the harvest. Neither manufacturer has high inventories. One Bank director reports slow auto sales in Bismarck, North Dakota, while another reports increased sales during June and July in parts of western Wisconsin. Homes are still selling well in many parts of the district. Both the unit and dollar values of Twin Cities home sales exceeded their year-earlier levels by over 35 percent in July. However, a logjam of closings has slowed the cash flow to realtors. Building permits in the Twin Cities were 25 percent higher in the second quarter than they were a year earlier. A Bank director from the Upper Peninsula of Michigan reports that new home sales in the Iron Mountain area have been good. In contrast, both building permits and home sales in Montana have been substantially lower than last year's. Tourism Tourist spending in the district's hard-pressed non-metro areas has been good, although not as good as expected this spring. Crossings over the Mackinac Bridge into Michigan's Upper Peninsula reached a record high in June, rising 5 percent above last year's level. Also, travel to that area's Keweenaw Peninsula has been exceptionally good. While statistics aren't available yet, summer tourism looks good so far in northern Wisconsin. Tourist activity is up somewhat in the Dakotas, but not by nearly as much as many had hoped. In Montana, visits to campgrounds have been quite popular, although attendance at the state's national parks has been mixed. Resource-Related Industries The performance of the district's resource-related industries continues to be uneven. Wood product industries are still generally a bright spot. Paper and waferboard plants are outperforming lumber mills, though, and loggers are dissatisfied with the slack poplar market. A Bank director thinks that the poplar market may be stimulated by new plywood and waferboard operations in Michigan's Upper Peninsula. Declines in oil, gas, and coal production continue to plague North Dakota and Montana. In Montana, construction has started on a gold mine near Helena, while a copper mine has reopened in Butte. Agriculture Crop conditions in the district still look good, but market crop prices have continued to fall. Minnesota's farm price index fell in July, dropping to 3 percent below last July's level. The decline may help stimulate export sales, while government deficiency payments will help insulate many farmers from the falling prices. Some isolated snippets of good news apply to the district's farm sector. Hog and cattle operations have benefited from lower feed prices, and prices for these animals rose. Dairies in Minnesota and Wisconsin shipped milk to drought-stricken southeastern states, helping firm dairy prices here. And a two-week marketing trip to the Orient resulted in signed contracts for the export of bee pollen products produced on the southern edge of Montana's Flathead Indian Reservation.