The District economy continues to suffer from the weakness in energy and construction, but there is some evidence that the rate of decline in economic activity has slowed. The drilling rig count hit a low in June and has increased slightly since. The value of construction contracts grew during the three months ending in July, but remained well below a year earlier. The manufacturing sector is still sluggish overall, owing to weakness in construction and energy, but there are signs of improvement in some industries. Falling retail and automobile sales reflect the overall deterioration of the District economy. The level of liabilities in the District's large banks is declining. Ranchers in the District are expected to benefit from higher meat and poultry prices, but agricultural credit conditions continue to deteriorate. Manufacturing Although District manufacturers generally note continued sales declines, reports of reductions are less widespread than earlier in the year. Makers of electrical and electronic machinery and of transportation equipment note some expansions in sales, but they expect little growth for the rest of the year. Orders are up for paper and allied products and for fabricated metal products. Among apparel firms, sales are flat to slightly higher, as import competition abates. Prices for lumber and wood have been deteriorating recently due to large supplies, but District respondents express optimism that strikes and possible tariffs may reduce the strong competition from Canadian producers. Orders for chemical and allied products are mixed, with no pronounced pattern either of increase or decline. Sales by stone, clay, and glass producers are falling from a year earlier, as a result of continuing weakness in the construction sector. Orders of primary metals and of non-electrical machinery are dropping due to decreases in demand from energy and construction firms. Drilling The drilling rig count continues to register slight increases after the decline was arrested in June. The number of well permits being issued and the seismic crew count are still falling, although the rate of decline for well permits has slowed. Respondents say that OPEC's current attempt to raise oil prices is not likely to lead to a significant resurgence in drilling. Auto and Retail Sales Auto and retail sales remain depressed. The largest declines are in the weak, energy-dependent portions of the District. Auto dealers do not expect sales improvement this year. They believe that the high sales levels of recent years mean that replacement sales will continue to be weak. Retailers, who generally expect the District economy to begin to recover later in the year, anticipate some growth in their business. Construction The total value of construction contracts increased in July for the third consecutive month, but it remains well below a year earlier. Gains in nonresidential and non-building construction stimulated the recent upturn. Nonresidential construction has shown some vigor, despite a significant decline in the value of contracts for office buildings and retail space. Recent strength in virtually every other category of nonresidential construction has helped to sustain contract values. The value of residential construction contracts continues to slip, in response to the overall weakness of the District economy and to past overbuilding of multifamily housing. The rate of decline has been very small. Increasing vacancy rates have left the number of permits issued for multifamily building 40- percent below the first quarter level. Further declines in residential contracts are likely as soon as the weakness in multifamily permits begins to be reflected in construction contract values. Single-family construction remains fairly steady. Although all types of construction remain below a year earlier, the difference has narrowed to the 20-percent range from 40-percent earlier in the year. Banking The balance sheets of the District's banks reflect the overall weakness of the District economy. At the large banks, lending activity is declining in all categories, with the exception of real estate. The rate of increase in real estate lending, while positive, has slowed dramatically. The level of total liabilities is slipping. The largest decline has been in large time deposits. In a reflection of the lackluster economic activity in the District, transaction deposits at all District banks have diminished, despite double-digit growth rates in the nation as a whole. Agriculture District farmers and ranchers are expected to earn higher incomes in the second half of the year because of increased payments from government programs and higher meat prices. In July, the index of prices received by Texas farmers and ranchers was above a year earlier for the first time in almost two years, largely owing to strength in meat and poultry prices. Nevertheless, agricultural credit conditions continue to deteriorate. Many farmers and ranchers are still in financial trouble as land values continue to decline sharply. Agricultural bankers expect 5 percent of their farm and ranch borrowers to leave agriculture in 1986 because of financial stress, up from 4 percent in 1985.