Overview Manufacturing and retail sales remain sluggish, and producers and retailers expect only slow growth over the next six months. Service firms are experiencing gradual expansion and foresee continued improvement in their sales. Import and export activity at seaports is strong and is expected to increase. Business and financial executives expect only minor short-run effects on the economy from tax reform and from the August cut in the discount rate. Bankers are somewhat reluctant to reduce interest rates on deposits and are therefore experiencing a squeeze on their interest margins. State and local government officials and employees are becoming less optimistic about prospects for increased revenue. August rains have provided relief from drought and have improved the outlook for the agricultural harvest. Retail Sales Auto dealers, department stores, and other retailers report lower sales in August after generally flat activity earlier in the summer. Although 50 percent of retailers expect sales to increase over the next six months, that percentage has declined from 60 percent last month. On the other hand, only 8 percent now expect declines in sales, compared with 20 percent a month ago. Manufacturing Manufacturing remained generally weak in August. Capacity utilization rates averaged 76 percent, the same as in July, although shipments, new orders, and the length of the workweek were up slightly in both durable and nondurable goods industries. Raw material and finished goods inventories declined marginally for the second consecutive month. Although most manufacturers expect the U.S. economy and their own businesses to improve in the coming months, the proportion of optimists is smaller than a month ago. Manufacturers report that current prices for their raw materials and finished goods are generally stable. But the proportion of respondents expecting prices to rise over the next six months has increased. Thirty-nine percent of firms surveyed this month, as compared with 23 percent last month, expect increases in the prices of their finished goods; 50 percent this month, compared with 40 percent last month, expect the prices of raw materials to rise. Services Services sector growth has slowed. Forty-two percent of this month's respondents, compared with 53 percent of last month's, report an increase in sales. But 71 percent of the respondents expect increases in their sales over the next six months. District seaport officials report increases in both export and import shipments. Industry spokesmen expect these increases to continue in the months ahead, unless shipping activity is interrupted by an unanticipated work stoppage. Longshoreman contracts expire in October. Government Survey respondents in state and local governments are less optimistic about funding than a month ago; 50 percent now foresee an increase in general revenue in the next six months while 19 percent expect a decrease. Last month, 71 percent expected revenue increases and 6 percent expected declines. Agriculture A stalled weather front provided some much needed rainfall across the District during mid-August. Soybean yields are expected to benefit, and tobacco and fruit are generally in good condition, but the rain came too late to help the corn crop. Pasture and hay conditions are still poor but have improved enough to lessen early marketings of livestock. The peanut yield is expected to be excellent, but the quality of the peanuts is now threatened by a mold that appeared with the August rains. Policy Most respondents expect only a slight stimulus to the economy from the August reduction in the discount rate. Bankers say their margins are squeezed when the discount rate is reduced. Competition, they say, rapidly forces down interest rates on loans but delays or prevents reductions in interest rates on deposits. The squeeze is especially severe when discount rate reductions come in rapid succession. Respondents are about evenly divided on the short-run effects of tax reform on the economy. Half expect the effects to be expansive, and half believe they will be contractive.