Summary The Seventh District's economic performance continues to lag the nation, with no evidence of either a drop-off or an acceleration in the pace of overall activity. Total employment in the five District states has been about flat since early this year, with losses of manufacturing jobs about equaled by increases in other sectors. Consumer spending and residential building continue relatively strong. However, domestic automakers recently pared production plans as inventories of some models became excessive. Commercial construction continues at a high level, but important new projects have been postponed indefinitely. Most lines of mechanical capital goods remain weak. Labor disputes have cut output of steel and construction equipment. Bumper grain crops are exerting downward pressure on prices, and are expected to strain available storage capacity. Labor Negotiations Labor-management negotiations in the District in 1986 have been more prolonged and heated than in recent years in steel, construction equipment, meat packing, building trades, and local government. Workers in distressed industries are strongly resisting pay and benefit cuts. Unions are demanding job security guarantees. Managements are pushing for changes in restrictive work rules. Work stoppages have halted production to a greater extent than in recent years. USX, with a major plant in Gary, Indiana, was shut down August 1 after labor rejected a management proposal to cut wages and benefits substantially. The union called the shutdown a lockout after USX rejected a union offer to work under terms of the old contract while bargaining continued. Where courts agree with the union position, workers are eligible for unemployment compensation. Deere, the leading farm equipment producer, closed all its farm equipment plants (mainly in Illinois and Iowa) after three facilities were struck. Farm equipment inventories are described as larger than normal. A strike at a Caterpillar parts plant caused layoffs at other facilities. A strike by Detroit municipal workers was settled in early August, after 19 days. Steel The strike at the USX Gary Works has cut steel output in the District sharply, and shifted orders to other producers. One District steelmaker is operating at 35 percent of capacity, compared with the low 50's for the industry. Cold-rolled sheet orders have been extended 6 to 8 weeks beyond normal leadtimes at this producer. Encouraged by the USX strike, several large steelmakers announced selective price increases. Demand for steel has increased this year for appliances, furniture, construction, and grain storage facilities. Buying of steel by the auto industry is about 5 percent below last year. Steel for oil and gas, and for the railroads, is off sharply. Capital Equipment Output of mechanical capital goods is generally weak, even below last year's low level. Farm equipment output was extremely low, even before the Deere strike, with good used equipment in ample supply. Sales of replacement parts, to keep existing agricultural equipment operating, are described as good. A leading producer of industrial robots is cutting employment due to cancellations of orders by automakers. Railroad equipment output continues at a very low level. Oil and gas equipment output has fallen near zero. Two manufacturers of diesel engines, faced with depressed demand, recently announced an agreement to combine those operations. Some types of construction equipment have improved, supported by strong residential and highway work. The latter consists mainly of repair and upgrading of existing routes. Reports indicate that defense equipment orders come in spurts, but apparently are increasing overall. Motor Vehicles Sales of cars and trucks are near last year's high levels, supported by cut-rate financing as low as 2.9 percent and rebates from domestic producers, with imports accounting for a larger share of the market. A credit union trade association is asking the FTC to determine whether below-market financing programs of the automakers' captive finance companies constitute unfair competition. Domestic car and truck makers have scaled back production in the current quarter from earlier plans through temporary plant closings and slower line speeds. Light truck sales are still strong, particularly imports. One industry analyst projects sales of medium trucks in 1986 slightly ahead of last year, but expects sales of heavies to be down 12 percent. Sales of both mediums and heavies in 1967 are expected to be near 1986 levels. Competition is fierce for heavies, with prices below last year and at unprofitable levels. Further consolidations and employment cuts by heavy truck makers are expected by analysts. There is an unusually large supply of good used truck tractors and trailers, partly reflecting the sharp increase in failures of trucking firms under deregulation. Nonresidential Construction Commercial construction activity in major District centers remains at a high level. But a large amount of prime office space in the Chicago area, downtown and in suburban centers, is vacant with more coming on the market. Some major projects have been delayed awaiting anchor tenants. Furthermore, proposed tax treatment of "passive income" is said to be discouraging equity investors. Demand for suburban office space is up from last year. There has been some pickup in the Chicago area in construction of strip shopping centers, small industrial warehouses, and a variety of smaller business projects. Residential Construction Housing construction and resales continue at good levels in many parts of the District. Residential building permits for 7 months are 27 percent above last year in the District states, versus a rise of 7 percent for the U.S., with particularly large gains in the Chicago, Indianapolis, and Milwaukee areas, and in parts of Michigan. Average prices of homes in the Chicago area rose 12 percent in the first 6 months of this year, according to a realtor's analysis, with increases of 15-20 percent reported in favored suburbs. Similar increases have been reported for portions of the Detroit area. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages have fallen to about 10 percent, according to a survey of Chicago-area lenders, down from 10.6 percent in mid-June. Despite improvement, residential building in the District as a whole is still well short of the pace of the late 1970s. Shortages of skilled tradesmen, including bricklayers, carpenters, and drywall installers, are reported in the Chicago and Detroit areas. One District lender describes several steps taken earlier this year to restrain loan applications (including refinancings) which had overwhelmed processing capacity. These included higher application fees, elimination of rate lock- ins, and higher mortgage rates. A newspaper survey points to a 5-10 percent rise in apartment rents this fall. Consumer Spending Most large general merchandise chains reported seasonally adjusted dollar sales records in July. Strongest lines have been appliances and home furnishings. Hot weather in July boosted sales of air conditioners and apparel. Credit sales continue to account for a near-record share of total sales at one large chain. Delinquencies have declined since spring, but remain relatively high. With inventories described as moderate, the improved pace of sales is expected to stimulate orders to suppliers soon. Airline traffic is very strong, helped by discount fares. Agriculture District crop prospects remain excellent. Record per acre corn yields are forecast in each of the five District states. Three of the states are likely to reach new highs in soybean yields. Abundant harvest prospects and record stocks from previous harvests threaten a storage crunch this fall. This has triggered a flurry of activity for bin manufacturers. The prospective shortage of storage space has pushed grain prices down further as farmers, leery of even lower prices when the large crop is harvested, sell existing stocks to make room for the new crop. A change in government regulations permitting increased use of temporary storage facilities will ease, but not eliminate, the distortions that arise from a storage crunch.