Economic growth in the Second District has remained modest since the last   report, though there have been some signs of improvement in the labor market.   Manufacturers report some further deterioration in their assessment of overall   business conditions but note that orders, shipments and employment levels have   been stable. Consumer spending, on the other hand, has been comparatively   robust, despite low levels of consumer confidence: auto dealers report brisk   business in August and September, non-auto retail contacts report that sales   have been on or ahead of plan, and tourism activity has remained strong.   Commercial real estate markets have been mixed but, on balance, slightly   stronger since the last report. Home sales have been mixed, with scattered signs   of a pickup, while the rental market has continued to strengthen. New home   construction remains stalled, aside from rental apartments. There has been   substantial new hotel development in Manhattan. Conditions in New York City's   key securities industry have weakened noticeably. Finally, bankers report a   pickup in demand for residential mortgage loans (largely refinancing), a slight   increase in demand for non-residential mortgages, some easing in credit   standards for business loans, and little change in delinquency rates.
Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales picked up since the last   report, helped by a replenishment of their inventories, as disruptions from the   tsunami in Japan earlier this year dissipated. Buffalo-area dealers estimate   that sales of new vehicles were up 5-10 percent from a year ago in both August   and September. Rochester-area dealers indicate year-over-year sales gains of 11   percent in August and in the range of 10-15 percent for September. Auto dealers   in both areas continue to report strong sales of used cars, with persistently   lean inventories driving up prices. Dealers' service and parts departments also   report sturdy business. Auto-industry contacts describe both retail and   wholesale credit conditions as "fine".
Consumer confidence remains at depressed levels. The Conference Board reports   that consumer confidence among residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ,   PA) fell in August and edged down further in September. Siena College reports   that consumer confidence fell across most of New York State in the third   quarter, with the steepest declines seen in New York City and the mid-Hudson   Valley; only the Albany region saw an increase in confidence. Tourism activity   in New York City has shown continued strength since the last report. Broadway   theaters report that, aside from a brief swoon in business in late August due to   Hurricane Irene, attendance has been fairly strong and roughly on par with a   year earlier. Moreover, revenues for the full month of September were up nearly   10 percent from a year earlier, despite fewer than usual Broadway shows opening   this fall. Manhattan hotels report that revenue per room was up roughly 6   percent from a year ago in both August and September, despite the hurricane.   Most of this increase reflects higher room rates, as occupancy rates were little   changed. Nevertheless, this implies a sizeable rise in tourism, because there   are 6-7 percent more hotel rooms in Manhattan than a year ago.
Commercial real estate markets have been mixed since the last report. In New   York City and metropolitan Buffalo, office vacancy rates declined in the third   quarter, while rents moved up. However, vacancy rates rose in Westchester and   Fairfield counties and were little changed across other parts of the District,   while asking rents were generally down modestly. The market for industrial and   warehouse space has not changed noticeably, except in metropolitan Albany and   northern New Jersey, where asking rents are down moderately from a year ago. New   office construction and development remains sluggish, but a number of major   hotel development projects have been announced recently or are already underway   in New York City.
Manufacturing firms across New York State indicate that their assessment of   general business conditions has deteriorated further since the last report,   although they note that orders and shipments have held steady. Respondents in   that sector anticipate only modest improvement in business conditions and   activity in the months ahead. Manufacturers also note that input price pressures   have moderated somewhat and that selling prices have remained essentially   stable.
