Business contacts in the Sixth District indicated that economic activity   continued to expand at a modest pace in September and early October. Merchants   noted that retail sales decelerated slightly compared with the previous month,   although auto sales continued to advance at a solid pace. Tourism activity   remained robust throughout most of the District. Homebuilders and Real Estate   brokers reported that new and existing home sales remained weak and home prices   continued to decline. Commercial developers indicated that construction activity   increased moderately compared with weak year-ago levels, and brokers noted an   increase in relocation activity. Manufacturers reported a modest decline in   production and new orders. Weakness in loan demand persisted, according to   banking contacts as both consumers and businesses refrained from borrowing.   Hiring for permanent positions remained very subdued across most sectors.   Pricing pressures moderated somewhat as input costs declined or leveled off.
Many retail contacts planned to raise prices, expecting to retract the   increases if customers pushed back. Merchants continued to aggressively discount   products to draw in traffic and have found it difficult to end such practices   because of concern over losing customers.
Leisure and business travel remained strong in the District. Occupancy rates   continued to improve, and both airport and cruise traffic were up. International   visitors bolstered activity, mainly in Florida. Group bookings and theme park   attendance were up in most areas. Overall, hospitality contacts expect a vibrant   holiday season.
Reports from District builders indicated that new home sales and construction   activity were largely unchanged in September and were slightly ahead of weak   levels from a year ago. Home builders continued to report that new home prices   were largely flat compared with the previous month and a year ago. Overall,   construction and new home sales growth are expected to be similar to weak   year-ago levels over the next several months.
Half of District commercial contractors polled reported that construction   activity in September exceeded the first half of the year, while just under   one-third signaled that activity was weaker. Backlogs reportedly increased   modestly as well. The outlook among contractors remained weak as most   anticipated commercial development to be flat or down on a year-over-year basis   for the remainder of 2011 and into 2012. Commercial brokers remarked that market   dynamics continued to largely favor tenants in the District, particularly in the   retail sector. However, some reports indicated that available office space had   declined, and with little new office development underway, this could result in   an increase in rental rates. An opposing view shared by some contacts was that   smaller blocks of office space remained abundant on a sub-lease basis from   tenants that have downsized, but are still paying for unused space. Corporate   expansion and relocation interest has picked up in some markets, which could   have a positive impact on inventory and construction.
Contacts reported that volumes of shipments were above last year's levels,   and that chemical and agricultural goods shipments, in particular, were strong.   Rail contacts noted that shipments of energy and food-related products were   driving increases in activity.
On balance, contacts reported that input prices had receded or leveled off   from earlier this year. Retailers continued to heavily discount products.   Businesses mentioned pursuing various cost-cutting measures in order to support   positive margins. Manufacturers noted general success passing on earlier   increases in commodity prices. Any plans to increase wages were generally   limited to employees with a high degree of technical skills.
Drought conditions persisted in much of Georgia and parts of Alabama. High   livestock feed costs were pressuring poultry producers but were being   successfully passed on by cattle producers. Corn prices remained elevated and   cotton prices paid to farmers increased modestly since the last report, although   cotton futures prices have declined somewhat further in recent weeks.   Agriculture contacts continued to report concerns over labor shortages and   production issues that they tied to recently passed immigration laws in some   states.
