Economic activity in the Fourth District increased slowly during the past six   weeks. Manufacturers reported stable production but a small decline in new   orders and backlogs. Energy companies noted little change in output. Freight   transport volume trended slightly higher. Retail sales rose slightly, whereas   new-car purchases were reported as mixed. Home builders are increasingly turning   to multi-family development as a revenue source, and nonresidential contractors   struggled to rebuild their backlogs. The demand for business credit continued to   slowly improve, while consumer loan demand was generally weak.
The pace of hiring seen earlier in the third quarter has diminished,   especially in the manufacturing and energy sectors. Staffing-firm   representatives reported a drop-off in the number of new job openings, with   vacancies concentrated in technical occupations and healthcare. Wage pressures   are contained. Prices for materials used by manufacturers and building   contractors were fairly stable or fell slightly.
Manufacturers remain committed to their capital spending plans for 2011;   however, a few of our contacts indicated that they are considering pulling back   on spending for 2012. Capacity utilization remains below normal at most   factories, while steel executives reported that their utilization rates were at   or near normal levels. Inventories are in line with sales. Reports on raw   materials show that prices were stable or declined slightly. Nonetheless,   several manufacturers announced modest price increases that will go into effect   early in the fourth quarter. Expectations for rising steel prices were   short-lived. Hiring has diminished since our last report. Manufacturers who have   added to payrolls reported that it was difficult to recruit highly skilled   workers. Wage pressures are contained.
Activity in nonresidential construction for small to medium-size builders   remained fairly weak, with much of their work limited to expansions and   lower-budget projects. However, the number of inquiries has picked up slightly   since our last report. The biggest challenge facing builders at this time is   adding backlog. Construction contracts were primarily with health care providers   and manufacturers, while a decline was seen in government-funded projects.   Looking forward, our contacts expect modest growth at best during the next six   months. Building material prices held steady. One builder mentioned that his   firm recently purchased construction equipment for the first time since 2007.   Construction payrolls and wages were stable.
Reports on new-vehicle sales from mid-August through late September were   mixed. On a year-over-year basis, vehicle purchases improved for most of our   contacts, with several noting double-digit increases. Demand for fuel-efficient,   less-expensive cars continued to grow, although the market for crossover   vehicles remains fairly strong. Inventories are rebuilding, especially for   Japanese cars, but remain below what many dealers would like. Dealers are   cautious in their outlook due to uncertainty about the economy and the   availability of vehicles that consumers want to buy. Demand for used cars is   steady but down slightly from earlier in the year. We heard a few reports of   some easing in credit restrictions, while banks and credit unions continued to   price loans very competitively. Many dealers are in the process of initiating   factory-mandated programs for showroom upgrades and reimaging. The pickup in   dealer hiring that we saw a couple of months ago has diminished. The few dealers   who are looking to hire report that it is difficult to find qualified   candidates.

