Reports from contacts in the Eighth District have been mixed since our   previous survey. Manufacturing activity has continued to increase, while reports   of activity in the services sector have been mixed. Residential real estate   market activity has continued to decline, while commercial real estate market   conditions varied across the District. Lending at a sample of small and   mid-sized District banks declined slightly during the three-month period from   mid-June to mid-September.
Reports of activity in the District's services sector have been mixed since   our previous survey. Firms in business support services, casinos, leisure, and   health services industries announced plans to expand operations and hire new   workers. In contrast, contacts in social services, media monitoring services,   telecommunications, and education services industries announced plans to   decrease operations in the District and lay off employees. General retailers   noted that sales have been flat to slightly down and they anticipate that   consumers will continue to cut back on their purchases through the end of the   year. Auto dealers noted that sales increased during the reporting period but   they anticipate that sales for the remainder of the year will be soft.
Reports of commercial construction activity were mixed throughout the   District. Contacts in northeast Arkansas reported that Jonesboro and Paragould   are experiencing an increase in commercial construction activity. In contrast,   contacts in St. Louis reported that commercial construction activity is weak and   is expected to remain slow for the remainder of the year. Reports of industrial   construction activity also varied across the District. Contacts in west   Tennessee reported that various medical-related establishments have either   completed construction projects or announced new ones. In contrast, contacts in   St. Louis and Louisville reported that speculative industrial construction   activity is expected to remain slow.

