Business contacts in the First District mostly continue to see demand growth,   but many are toning down their outlooks. Contacted retailers' year-over-year   percentage sales changes range from low single-digit declines to high   single-digit increases. Responses from manufacturers are mixed, but most   continue to report revenue growth. Advertising and consulting firms generally   cite strong results, but note a slowdown in the pace. Commercial and residential   real estate markets remain soft. Net hiring remains very limited except for   advertising and consulting; even there, contacts see restrained hiring going   forward. Price pressures continue to ease; some commodity prices are down and   many firms are holding their own prices steady. Contacts in several sectors cite   uncertainty as a key factor restraining demand.
The travel and tourism sector reports strength despite the generally downbeat   global economic climate. Within the sector, leisure travel is slowing, while   domestic and international business travel remains 5 percent to 7 percent higher   than in 2010. September growth slowed to 4 percent from the 5 percent to 7   percent year-over-year gains seen earlier in 2011. Advance hotel bookings for   2012:Q1 are up. The industry is expecting positive but slower growth in   2012.
Hiring at contacted manufacturers is limited to replacing workers who depart   through retirement and/or attrition. A semiconductor firm says it is   implementing a hiring freeze because incoming orders for 2012 have dropped   sharply in recent weeks, especially from China. A business products firm   continues to reduce headcount as part of a strategic restructuring plan and the   manufacturer with sales tied heavily to residential investment is also reducing   its workforce for the first time since 2009. A repeated theme from the majority   of contacts is that they are implementing changes to keep costs low and/or   reduce operating expenses. A couple of firms note that merit increases in 2012   will likely be lower than in 2011, while another firm plans to restructure its   healthcare benefits to shift more of the costs to employees without offsetting   pay increases.
There are fewer reports of input price pressures from manufacturers than in   recent months, even though prices for some food-related commodities such as milk   remain high. In fact, copper prices have dropped substantially in the last month   or so and other precious metals prices have also declined; oil prices are also   lower. Thus some manufacturers are facing noticeably lower costs; for the most   part, they say they are waiting to see if commodity prices stay lower before   adjusting their selling prices. More generally, contacted firms say their   selling prices remain stable, although they are raising prices "as needed," as   indicated in previous reports. Some manufacturers note, however, that consumers   are currently reluctant to spend on discretionary items, so they are offering   promotions to partially offset price increases and/or promote their products so   as not to lose customers to lower cost competitors.
Despite the uncertain economic environment, contacted manufacturers continue   to look for worthwhile investment opportunities, and some have made recent   acquisitions. To the extent that manufacturers are holding back on investment,   they say it is not because of a lack of credit or insufficient cash holdings.   Overall, firms are less optimistic about business conditions heading into 2012   than they were in the last round. Many firms are shifting any pickup in demand   they previously anticipated for 2012 forward to 2013.
Contacts say they are generally raising prices about 3 percent to 5 percent   to cover cost increases and maintain profit margins. Two strategic consulting   contacts, however, made bigger price changes: one firm dropped prices by 10   percent to compete with cheaper foreign firms, primarily in India, while the   other raised prices 10 percent to keep up with compensation costs. Hiring   activity is mixed, with firms spread along the spectrum from a 25 percent   addition to a 10 percent layoff. Nearly all contacts, however, say hiring is   likely to be restrained or flat for the foreseeable future.
For the most part, contacts have revised their expectations downward since   the last conversation in July. Although many still expect business conditions   and profitability to remain strong, they note that they are in a highly   pro-cyclical industry and economic indicators point towards a pessimistic   outlook. The one exception is firms that primarily provide services to the   financial industry, who expect strong growth as financial firms continue to deal   with the aftermath of the financial crisis and regulatory overhaul. Several   contacts say they believe the increasing prospect of continued political   stalemate in Washington is having serious deleterious effects on both their   firms and the economy as a whole.
Forecasts for the remainder of the year remain bleak, with contacts   anticipating 2011 sales will fall short of last year's total. Respondents do not   expect a significant improvement in residential real estate within the next one   to two years.
