Business activity in the Third District has remained mixed, with more   positive sectors than negative ones compared with the previous Beige Book. In   late August and early September, Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee left   dozens of people injured or dead, damaged or destroyed thousands of homes, and   cost hundreds of millions of dollars in disruption and damage throughout much of   the Third District. Since the last Beige Book, manufacturing activity has   declined further, but at a slower rate. Retailers reported flat to slightly down   year-over-year sales. Motor vehicle dealers provided a bright spot with stronger   year-over-year sales. Third District banks have reported little overall change   in loan volume outstanding since the last Beige Book. On balance, residential   real estate and construction activity have been slightly stronger since the last   Beige Book, which was released soon after the debt-ceiling turmoil. Commercial   real estate contacts have continued to report steady to slightly improved market   conditions in most parts of the Third District. Service-sector firms reported   generally flat to modest growth. Price pressures have moderated for many sectors   but continue to strain profit margins.
Most Third District business contacts had already lowered their expectations   over the past few months--projecting slow to flat growth through year-end.   Ongoing uncertainty since the previous Beige Book has not significantly altered   their outlook. Manufacturers still expect a modest rise in shipments and orders   during the next six months. Retailers are hopeful for stronger sales, and auto   dealers are uncertain; both have lean inventory plans. Most banking and   residential real estate contacts had lowered their expectations before the last   Beige Book. Commercial real estate contacts and service-sector firms continue to   plan for slow growth; however, uncertainty has increased.
Third District manufacturers expect business conditions to improve   during the next six months, despite expressing significant uncertainty. Since   the last Beige Book, the general outlook has improved substantially, with nearly   one-third more firms expecting an improvement and one-third fewer firms   expecting a decline. Capital spending plans among area manufacturers remain   slightly positive; however, significant uncertainty has been expressed.
Caution guides the commercial and industrial real estate sector as well, but   the sector is less susceptible to the news cycle. Since the last Beige Book,   continued slow growth has been observed, with select markets beginning to   tighten. In those markets, vacancy rates tend to drop, rents rise, and   concessions disappear. Investor interest has picked up, but deals remain   difficult to close. New construction or renovation plans are mostly limited to   institutional, life sciences, multifamily, and warehousing sectors in selected   markets.
.
