Economic activity in the Twelfth District grew at a moderate pace during the   reporting period of September through early October. Upward price pressures were   mixed but remained modest overall, and upward wage pressures were limited to a   narrow set of skilled occupations. Sales of retail items rose, as did demand for   business and consumer services. District manufacturing activity improved   modestly. Agricultural producers reported further sales gains, and demand rose a   bit for providers of energy resources. Home sales and construction remained   lackluster, and demand for commercial real estate stayed weak in most markets.   District banking contacts indicated that overall loan demand was largely   unchanged.
Contacts in most sectors reported that upward wage pressures were nearly   nonexistent, held down by limited demand for new hires and high levels of   unemployment. However, wage gains remained pronounced for narrow worker groups   with specialized skills, particularly in information technology fields. The   reports suggested that wage gains are likely to remain muted for the foreseeable   future, as most businesses do not expect to engage in significant hiring over   the balance of 2011, except for normal seasonal needs.
Demand for business and consumer services was mixed but appeared to improve   on balance. Energy utilities reported further increases in demand from   businesses and households. Sales continued to expand for providers of technology   services, although the pace of growth has slowed from reporting periods earlier   in the year. Demand was largely flat for providers of professional services such   as legal services and accounting and also for health care. Providers of   transportation services reported slightly slower activity. Conditions in the   District's travel and tourism industry were mixed: contacts in Hawaii noted a   slight decline in visitor volumes, while contacts in other major markets, such   as San Diego and Las Vegas, noted further improvements in visitor counts and   hotel occupancy rates.
