The Ninth District economy increased modestly since the last report.   Increased activity was noted in consumer spending, tourism, residential and   commercial construction, residential and commercial real estate, professional   services, manufacturing, energy and mining. Hiring at district companies   increased slightly, while wage pressures remained generally subdued. Overall   prices were steady with some exceptions noted.
Fall tourism activity was up slightly. The Minnesota State Fair in late   August and early September was the third-best attended in history, down 1   percent from the 2009 record. Fall tourism was on par with last year in western   South Dakota, according to an official. Meanwhile, a Minnesota travel agency   reported that recent corporate travel was up 15 percent from a year ago.
Commercial real estate markets were up slightly. Respondents to a Minneapolis   Fed ad hoc survey indicated a slight increase in the need for additional space   over the next three months. A Minnesota venture capital firm that funds   minority-owned businesses noted an increase in purchases of vacant buildings. A   large broker of retail space in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area noted increased   leasing activity during the past two months. A broker for office space reported   that leasing activity has recently edged up. However, the number of sales   transactions was still low. Home sales in September were up significantly from   the same period a year ago in Minneapolis-St. Paul. August sales in the Sioux   Falls area increased from last year; however, the median price of homes sold in   August decreased from last year.
Wage pressures remained generally subdued. However, in North Dakota, some   wage increases were reported due to gains in hiring related to the oil industry.
Overall prices were steady with some exceptions noted. Bank directors   reported that generally companies were resistant to increasing prices for their   final products and services over the next six months. Minnesota gasoline prices   were down 40 cents per gallon in early October compared with early September.   However, some business contacts reported recent increases in health care costs.   According to the Minneapolis Fed's ad hoc survey, 45 percent of respondents   indicated that input costs were up from a year ago.
