Business conditions in the Fifth District were either weak or weakening in   most sectors since our last report. Manufacturing activity contracted moderately   in September, after pulling back markedly in August. Retail sales also softened.   In addition, activity at non-retail services firms began to decline. Both   residential and commercial real estate activity remained near the weak levels   seen in recent months. However, in banking, a moderate improvement in commercial   lending offset weakness in mortgage lending. Tourism remained strong overall.   District labor markets had undertones of weakness, with temp services reporting   problems finding qualified workers. Price pressures moderated since our last   assessment.
Port activity has advanced at a slower-than-expected pace in recent months.   Several analysts stated that exports continued to outpace imports, but   characterized both as somewhat soft during the current peak season. An official   noted that major retailers were not anxious to build inventory going into the   big holiday season and were waiting for an improvement in consumer spending   before increasing their import orders. Another port official reported that ocean   carriers had also become less optimistic about cargo shipments over the   remainder of the year. Auto exports were flat in recent months, according to one   analyst, but auto imports were starting to increase as dealers began stocking   for the new model year. Exports of coal and other commodities continued to do   exceptionally well.
Commercial real estate and construction activity was little changed from weak   levels that have persisted throughout much of this year. Many commercial   Realtors described the market as "spotty," with gains one week being offset by   declines the next. Warehouse leasing activity fell, due to soft manufacturing   sales and production. A Realtor in Virginia cited modest improvements in leasing   by small industrial clients who were expanding, but added that he had to offer   lower rents to retain several office tenants. An agent covering the Carolinas   noted that "leases were getting done," but problems obtaining financing were   holding back many deals. A South Carolina Realtor described the office market as   mixed, but noted that gains were limited to the high end of the market. On the   construction side, several contractors also described business as slow-paced. A   contractor in Maryland stated that a slight increase in building renovations   during June and July ended in August. Several contractors reported an uptick in   government-related projects, while private work continued to decline.
