Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicate that overall   economic activity continued to expand in September, although many Districts   described the pace of growth as "modest" or "slight" and contacts generally   noted weaker or less certain outlooks for business conditions. The reports   suggest that consumer spending was up slightly in most Districts, with auto   sales and tourism leading the way in several of them. Business spending   increased somewhat, particularly for construction and mining equipment and auto   dealer inventories, but many Districts noted restraint in hiring and capital   spending plans. By sector, manufacturing and transportation activity was   reported to have increased on balance. A few Districts also reported slight   improvements in construction and real estate activity; nonetheless, overall   conditions for both residential and commercial real estate remained weak.   Districts reporting on nonfinancial services cited mixed results with activity   varying widely by industry. Loan demand by and large moved lower, with the   exception of an increase in mortgage refinancing in many Districts. Crop   conditions at harvest were generally less favorable than a year ago. In   contrast, energy and mining activity continued to strengthen in several   Districts, with the exception of some storm-related slowdowns in the Gulf of   Mexico. Cost pressures eased in the majority of Districts, though there was some   further pass-through of earlier increases to downstream prices. Wage pressures   remained subdued outside of a few exceptions in which firms noted having   difficulty finding appropriately skilled workers.
Tourism was generally higher in those Districts reporting on the sector.   Contacts in New York noted that, despite the negative impact of Hurricane Irene,   Broadway and hotel revenues continued to rise. Richmond reported substantial   damage from Hurricane Irene to some tourist destinations that were subsequently   forced to close for repairs, but tourism remained vibrant in other areas.   Boston, Atlanta, and Minneapolis also cited increases in tourism, with   hospitality contacts in Atlanta expecting a robust holiday season. Tourism   results were mixed across various destinations in the San Francisco   district.
Activity in energy-producing sectors strengthened in the Cleveland,   Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. Atlanta reported   a decrease in off-shore operations in the Gulf of Mexico due to Tropical Storm   Lee. Cleveland and Atlanta also anticipated increased capital investments in oil   and gas production, since new technology has lowered costs and boosted output.   Contacts in Minneapolis reported plans for expanded wind generation of   electricity. Mining activity in the Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco   Districts was strong.
Most Districts reported that wage pressures remained subdued. Exceptions were   generally for workers with specialized skills or in areas where firms were   having difficulty finding workers. For instance, Atlanta and San Francisco cited   wage gains for workers with specialized skills, such as in information   technology, Minneapolis reported wage increases in the energy industry, and   Cleveland noted higher wages for truck drivers. In addition, contacts in   Minneapolis and Cleveland noted increases in non-wage costs such as healthcare.   Most other cost pressures moderated in September. Although Kansas City and San   Francisco reported increases in raw material costs, most Districts reported a   general decline in commodity prices, including prices of oil and industrial   metals. Many Districts indicated that there continued to be some further   pass-through of past increases to wholesale prices. Though retail contacts noted   a hesitation to increase prices with demand still weak, many Districts reported   increased pass-through of costs in the retail sector, particularly for food and   cotton-based goods.

