Overview Nearly all indications are that business activity in the Fifth District continues very weak, and may still be declining. Our recent surveys suggest further deterioration of business at both the manufacturing and retail levels in recent weeks. We continue to hear of layoffs and the number of unemployed is apparently still on the rise, although unemployment rates have turned down in some areas. Inventories have apparently turned up over the past month to six weeks. Survey responses are to the effect that prices are actually falling. There has been no evidence of any revival in the housing industry and other construction seems to be lagging as well. Credit demands remain generally soft, particularly in the consumer and real estate sectors. Delinquency rates are up modestly on most types of loans. Expectations for business performance remain generally positive, but have weakened somewhat in recent weeks. The Manufacturing Sector Activity in the manufacturing sector appears to have weakened since our last survey. Respondents report declines in shipments, new orders, and order backlogs. Also, employment has been cut back further and the average workweek has been shortened. Inventories, of finished goods and materials, moved back up over the month leaving total stocks generally above desired levels. Current plant and equipment capacity is also well above present needs according to respondents. In this area the greatest difficulties are being felt in such industries as textiles, furniture, building materials, metals, and machinery and equipment. Much of what little support the manufacturing sector has gotten recently has come from seasonal strength in the tobacco and food processing sectors. Consumer Spending Retailers responding to our latest survey experienced declines in total sales and in relative sales of big ticket items over the past month. They further report declines in inventories, which remain somewhat above desired levels, and in employment. Indications are that prices remain weak and that retailers are offering heavy promotions and discounts to keep the goods moving. Despite the efforts, a common view around the District is that the consumer has withdrawn and is awaiting some encouragement from other sectors of the economy. In the meantime, consumers are generally managing their existing debt with only a modest increase in delinquencies, and increasing savings. Many believe that postponement of purchases is setting the stage for a significant rebound in sales of autos and other durables once attitudes begin to improve. Housing and Construction Housing continues to contribute disproportionately to the overall weakness in District business activity. The overall construction sector is lagging, having lost the support until recently furnished by the commercial and industrial area. The residential sector remains the weakest, however. Sales of existing houses also remain very slow. The Financial Sector Loan demand is very soft overall. In the real estate area it is described as virtually non-existent, and the consumer sector is doing little better. Business loans are also down considerably in the face of an inventory liquidation which may now have run its course. Delinquency rates are being held to modest increases in nearly all areas, but several Richmond directors mentioned the growing numbers of business and personal bankruptcies as an area of concern. One noted that a loan need not go delinquent before it goes bad, as in the case of a bankruptcy. Our directors generally believe that if interest rates continue to fall borrowing could rise substantially. Most believe that the strength will appear first in the consumer and real estate areas. Agriculture Fifth District farmers' financial difficulties continued unabated during the second quarter of 1982, according to this Bank's survey of farm credit conditions. Moreover, farmland values are trending downward, eroding farmers' equity positions. Under these circumstances, farm loan demand remained sluggish and bank supplies of farm loan funds were plentiful. Farm loan repayment rates and requests for loan renewals and extensions, although showing slight improvement over the spring quarter, were equally as poor as during the same period last year. Bankers were requiring significantly more collateral to secure farm loans than they did a year ago. Meanwhile, liquidity pressures facing some rural banks eased slightly from year-earlier levels. Marketing of this season's flue-cured tobacco crop, under way for two weeks, has been characterized by lower grade prices and slightly poorer quality than a year earlier. Because of dissatisfaction with prices, growers have placed more than one-third of gross sales thus far under the government loan program. The crop is some 13 percent under 1981's output.