Summary With the third quarter well advanced it appears that economic activity in the Seventh District is still declining. Signs of improvement noted in the spring have evaporated. Consumer purchases are very slow in virtually all sectors. Capital goods producers, almost without exception, are cutting output further. More plants are being closed, many permanently. Motor vehicle sales continue well below expectations. Normal vacation shutdowns commonly have been extended. Financial problems are increasing for many lenders and borrowers. Residential construction is at a postwar low with no revival in sight, and nonresidential plans are being scaled down. Demand for workers is weak, but many unions adamantly oppose significant concessions, and most nonunion employers are increasing compensation. Analysts were shocked by recent USDA predictions of record crops, which threaten the financial health of agriculture. Farmland values are continuing an unprecedented postwar decline. Financial Stress Revelations of the extent of problem loans of the District's largest bank sent a chill wind through the financial and business community. Most large banks have special teams monitoring existing loans, and new loans are being scrutinized very closely. First-half losses of some of the largest S&Ls would wipe out their book net worth if not checked in the second half. (Actual net worth, taking into account current market values, is rarely mentioned.) Many business and agricultural bankruptcies would result if lenders chose strictly to enforce loan contracts. Liquidations of retailing and manufacturing establishments without bankruptcy are frequent. A number of capital goods firms are planning to consolidate two or more plants, with the survivor likely to be a newer facility in the Sunbelt. Capital Expenditures Machinery and equipment production is declining or remaining at very low levels, depending on the type. Demand for equipment for construction, agriculture, industry, utilities, and transportation is at very low levels. Orders for all types of capital goods were poor in the second quarter, and some producers reported a further drop in July and early August. Forging and casting operations are off 50 percent or more from last year and dropping further. Employees of 40 to 50 years experience at some capital goods companies "have never seen anything like this." Some firms that normally only manufacture complete machines are seeking repair or retrofit jobs. Over half of the freight car plants are now closed, and with orders near zero, the ratio may rise to 90 percent by year-end. Construction engineering firms have reduced staff, and plant location advisers have relatively few new projects. These developments suggest that the capital expenditure slump will be long extended. Consumer Spending Consumers are not leading the Seventh District out of its recession. Large general merchandise retailers report dollar sales about equal to last year in July and early August in dollars, and significantly lower in real terms. Customers generally respond only to price cutting and strong promotions. The only consistently strong line is auto repair and service, reflecting the fact that people are holding on to cars longer. Airline traffic in July was 8 percent below March, seasonally adjusted, because of reduced vacation travel. Resort areas have much larger vacancies than in past years. Labor Negotiations Unions are strongly resisting attempts of management to obtain concessions on wages, benefits, and work rules. On August 1, just after negotiations broke off in the steel industry, contract provisions automatically boosted average total compensation of production workers by about 75 cents per hour to $22.50. (Over one-third represents nontaxable benefits.) This multiplies out to almost $47,000 per year. For Ford and GM the comparable figure is almost $45,000. Chrysler workers have rejected virtually all new management proposals to cut costs and are demanding a return to "parity." Various managements dependent on autos and steel have decided that survival for their corporations requires scaling down operations, diversification into unrelated fields, and turning to foreign sources for major components such as engines and transmissions. Housing Residential construction continues near rock bottom with the year 1982 now "written off for lost." New units being built, in the main, are either ordered by well-financed buyers or are subsidized rental units. Used home sales are very slow. One survey indicates that actual selling prices in the Chicago area, adjusted for special lending terms, are down 8 percent from last year, but there are reports of auctions bringing cuts of 25 percent or more. Average quoted mortgage rates on conventional loans are 16.5 to 17 percent, but almost no loans are being made on these terms. Most lending activity involves short-term loans, "blended rates" and second mortgages. There are reports of "balloon" notes coming due with refinancing difficult to arrange. Nonresidential Construction Vacancy rates for first-class downtown Chicago office space increased sharply in the second quarter. New space is coming on the market rapidly, and needs of some renters are shrinking. Some proposed new buildings, put up for bids only recently, have been postponed or canceled. Leasing agents are offering attractive concessions to sign tenants, suggesting the downtown building boom is collapsing. The suburbs have had substantial excess office space for at least a year. Agriculture Crop prices had declined in recent weeks in anticipation of bumper corn and soybean harvests. Nevertheless, analysts were surprised by the very large production estimates released August 11 by the USDA. Excepting Iowa, record corn and soybean harvests are forecast for all District states. The five District states account for 55 percent of the nation's corn and over 40 percent of its soybeans. The implications of the large crop forecasts for District farmers, agricultural lenders, and agribusiness are ominous. Already burdensome carryover stocks of corn and soybeans will rise substantially, and crop prices, at unprofitable levels for several months, are likely to decline further. Because of limited compliance with the government's program only a small portion of the corn crop will be eligible for CCC price support loans. District farmland values, off 10 percent in the past year, probably will decline further. Farm equipment sales probably will remain depressed.