Summary Reports from Beige Book contacts suggest a recent pickup in growth in California and Washington, partly tempered by a moderation of the rapid pace of growth in other Twelfth District states. Overall, there appears to have been a gain in District manufacturing activity, with the locus of growth shifting toward California and Washington, where residential real estate markets also are firming noticeably. Among services, communications and software development are particularly strong. Retail sales in the District generally were reported to have increased in recent months. Wage inflation pressures are evident in some areas. Business Sentiment About three-quarters of our contacts in the District, including almost all respondents from Northern and Southern California, expect growth in their region to outpace the national growth rate, which most expect to be at or above its trend pace over the next year. Survey respondents expect tightness in labor markets to continue for a while, and prospects for inflation are perceived to have worsened slightly in the past few months. Retail Trade and Services Retail sales in the District generally were reported to have increased further in recent months. Business improved at food stores in the Pacific Northwest and Intermountain states. In Utah, retail sales reportedly were strong in July, particularly for apparel and autos. In Washington, strong sales were reported at small retailers, major conventional grocery chains, and club-warehouse style stores. Retailers in the Puget Sound area also reported difficulties in recruiting qualified employees at existing wages, given increased job availability in other industries. In services industries, continued strong job growth also was reported to be adding to wage and price pressures. Demand for telecommunications services jumped, and software development activity expanded in California and Washington states. Computer programmers and systems engineers reportedly are in short supply. Tourism activity also has been strong this summer, leading to significant increases in hotel room rates in cities such as Salt Lake City. Manufacturing Overall, there appears to have been a gain in District manufacturing activity in recent months, although emerging weakness was reported in a few localities. In Washington state, aircraft manufacturing is picking up, and electronics components manufacturers are benefiting from this and from the growth in demand for other types of business equipment. The rebound in commercial aircraft also reportedly is boosting orders for fabricated materials, components, and machine tools from suppliers in Oregon, Southern California, and Nevada. Lumber production reportedly increased in recent months. Food manufacturing was down in a few areas where harvests were delayed by wet weather. Manufacturing of information processing equipment and components reportedly was increasing in some areas and being scaled back in others; in general, such activity is increasing in California, particularly in research and development areas such as Silicon Valley, but there is a moderation of the rapid growth in manufacturing of computers and related equipment in the Pacific Northwest and Intermountain states. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Agricultural production reportedly was mixed, depending on the commodity. In general, demand for agricultural products was strong, buoyed by growing exports, and prices for several commodities were reported to have firmed. The supply of cotton was reported to be higher than last year, and tree fruits were plentiful, but yields on nut crops were medium to poor. Dairy products prices are increasing relatively fast. Real Estate and Construction Residential home sales and construction reportedly have strengthened in Washington and California, but the residential market is cooling a little in Oregon, Idaho, and Utah, following rapid earlier gains. However, throughout the Pacific Northwest and Intermountain states, nonresidential real estate vacancy rates are relatively low, and building of offices, commercial space, industrial facilities, and public infrastructure continued strong. Within California, the strength in nonresidential building is concentrated in the San Francisco Bay Area; many segments of the Los Angeles area nonresidential real estate market continue to experience high vacancy rates and not much construction. Financial Institutions District financial institutions generally reported firm loan demand and wide credit availability. Asset quality generally remained high, with only a modest deterioration in some consumer lines, such as credit card loans. Financial institutions reported pressures for large wage increases for information systems jobs and for entry-level customer service jobs in those localities with low unemployment rates.