Summary District economic activity has increased since the last report. Tight labor markets continue to be our contacts' primary concern. Strong sales in several industries have led to lower-than- anticipated inventories. Rising materials prices are also a continuing concern. Residential real estate and construction markets have softened somewhat. Loan demand at large District banks also appears to be softening. District crops are in mostly fair-to-good condition, although the corn and soybean crops are well behind schedule in some areas. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Reports of tight labor markets continue to come in from all parts of the District. Contacts are also reporting high turnover rates, even at firms that are offering relatively high starting wages and fringe benefits. Besides the previously reported shortages of skilled and entry-level workers, some contacts have noted a need for semi- skilled labor. In some areas of western Kentucky, where poultry processing is a growing industry, firms are increasingly hiring foreign labor. Firms that sell parts to the auto industry are reporting low finished goods inventories because of strong sales. Some firms supplying the construction industry also have low inventories because of strong sales, especially of power tools. Other firms in the steel drum and glass container industries report that their inventories are slightly below desired levels, but that customers' inventories are at desired levels. Some St. Louis merchants located near the McDonnell Douglas plant have felt the effect of the machinists' strike, which began June 5. In many cases, merchants are offering special prices to striking machinists to attract business. McDonnell Douglas has hired about 400 out-of-towners to work alongside nearly 4,000 white-collar workers currently on the production lines. The poultry industry continues to expand in western Kentucky, as another processor moves into the area, creating about 1,200 jobs. A telemarketer in the Memphis area is also expanding and adding almost 1,500 jobs. An Arkansas trucking company will open a new terminal and add 400 workers by winter. Two coal mines in southern Illinois, however, have announced they are closing because of a fall-off in demand. Together, about 550 jobs will be eliminated as the mines' customers switch to low-sulfur coal to meet federal pollution regulations. Prices Increasing prices for materials continue to affect some firms in the District. For example, St. Louis home builders note that prices of new homes have increased because of substantial increases in the costs of land and construction materials. On the other hand, a salvage metal processor and a maker of auto parts report few or no price increases, and, in one instance, a price decrease. Even with tight labor markets, there are still few reports of increased wage pressures. In those cases where starting wages have been bid up, the increase has generally not been passed on to consumers. Real Estate and Construction Some real estate agents have reported a recent softening of real estate markets, particularly in central Arkansas. They cite rising interest rates and strong sales earlier in the year that satisfied much of the pent-up demand. Residential construction permits issued in June in most District metropolitan areas reflect this recent slowing. Some pockets of strength can be found in western Kentucky and northeast Arkansas, however. Almost all District metro areas are well ahead of last year's permit levels. Mid-priced homes ($100,000 to $150,000) are reportedly selling well, while sales of higher- priced homes have slowed substantially. Nonresidential construction activity appears strong in northern Mississippi, central Arkansas and western Kentucky. Some commercial real estate agents, however, have noted a recent moderation in demand. Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at 11 large District banks declined 0.6 percent between mid-May and mid-July after rising 1.5 percent between mid-March and mid-May and 2.7 percent between mid-May and mid-July one year ago. Commercial and industrial loans rose 0.8 percent in the most recent period, but real estate loans dipped 0.9 percent and consumer loans dropped 3 percent. Agriculture and Natural Resources Weather conditions varied considerable in July, with temperatures in the northern portions of the District slightly below average. Although rains during the latter half of the month helped substantially, many areas are still in need of topsoil moisture- particularly in the southern parts of the District. In addition, the timing of the rains in the corn- and soybean-producing areas were such that prices for these two crops have declined markedly from their highs earlier in the month. Overall, crops are generally in fair-to-good condition across the District. Notable exceptions include parts of Illinois and Indiana, where a substantial percentage of the corn and soybean crops are well behind schedule. In Missouri and the southern parts of the District, crops are generally in better condition and ahead of schedule. Winter wheat yields were average to slightly below average in Illinois, Indiana and northern Missouri, but were generally better than average in most other areas.