The Eleventh District expansion moderated in late June and July after strong growth noted in previous surveys. Most respondents expect business conditions to remain at good levels for the rest of the year. Manufacturing orders were softer, as construction-related orders slowed slightly and semiconductor orders remained weak. Increased drilling activity boosted orders for energy-related equipment. Retailers reported slower sales and noted reduced traffic at stores. Loan demand was mixed, as refinancings continued falling, new residential loans held steady, and loans for commercial construction and consumers picked up. Although construction activity held steady over the past six weeks, contacts in the residential sector expected slower housing construction in coming months. Nonetheless, contacts said higher demand for office space reduced vacancies, especially in suburban markets. Record heat and drought continued to impede agricultural production. Prices and Wages There were scattered reports of price pressures over the past six weeks. Contacts said prices were up for plastic products, some base petrochemicals and lumber. In addition, several manufacturing respondents said higher natural gas prices had boosted their costs. Crude oil prices were down from the last survey, but remained above $20 per barrel according to contacts. Despite low cattle prices, the June Texas All Farm Products Index of Prices rose 2.9 percent above the May level, pushed up by higher prices for hogs, broilers, eggs, milk and all crops except potatoes. Prices were reported as falling for steel, paper, some apparel products, semiconductors and computers. There were few reports of wage pressures, although contacts in some industries continued reporting difficulty finding qualified, entry-level workers. A few manufacturing respondents were concerned about the possibility of a minimum wage increase, but retailers said they would not be significantly affected. Manufacturing Manufacturing orders softened over the past six weeks despite stronger demand for most energy-related products. Semiconductor orders continued to fall, and contacts were more pessimistic about the outlook for the industry. Most respondents hoped the decline in orders would bottom out by year-end. Respondents in the computer industry reported flat demand overall, although firms that make "build-to-order" products reported stronger sales than the industry average. Many construction-related manufacturers reported somewhat softer demand in the past six weeks following extremely strong growth in orders earlier in the year. After reporting shortages in the last Beige Book survey, cement contacts said demand had softened in the last six weeks, allowing them to take customers off of allocation. Brick producers said plants continued to run at capacity and inventories were low, but demand had slowed slightly in July. Lumber producers reported steady demand and low inventories. Apparel manufacturers reported flat demand after a noted improvement in the last Beige Book. In energy-related sectors demand was strong for most products. Petrochemical producers said that demand was solid overall and profits were improving, but that demand for plastic products (such as polyethylene and polypropylene) was especially strong with low inventories and scattered shortages. Oil field machinery companies reported that increased drilling activity had boosted demand. Gulf Coast refiners said weaker gasoline prices combined with high prices for crude oil were reducing profits, however. Retail and Auto Sales Retail sales slowed in June and July, particularly for apparel. Retailers noted that traffic at stores was down. Inventories were in line with expectations, and there was no mention of price pressure. Contacts remained optimistic that sales would pick up in the fall. Auto sales softened in June and July, but inventories remained on the light side according to respondents. Financial Services Contacts in the financial services industry reported mixed loan demand over the last six weeks. Refinancings continued to decline as long-term interest rates remained at high levels. Other residential real estate loans reportedly held steady. Consumer loan demand was up for some contacts in Dallas/Fort Worth and Austin. In addition, respondents reported higher demand for commercial construction loans, fueled by plans for speculative office and warehouse construction. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate activity held steady in late June and July. Home construction remained at high levels, but contacts expect activity to cool in coming months because of higher financing costs and lower buyer traffic. Respondents said strong demand for industrial space continues to buoy nonresidential construction. While there are minimal office projects in the works, contacts reported tighter office occupancy and rising rents, especially in suburban markets. Energy The energy market strengthened since the last Beige Book report, and crude oil and natural gas prices were at relatively high levels. Domestic drilling activity increased, with virtually all of the increase in drilling attributable to rigs looking for natural gas. Offshore activity remains strong in the Gulf of Mexico with every available rig under contract. According to contacts, a number of projects are underway to build new rigs or to refurbish old ones. Agriculture Drought continues to stress agricultural conditions, according to contacts. In early July, rainfall reduced stress in some areas, but record-breaking heat kept pastures and forages dry in many parts of the Eleventh District. Numerous fields of failed corn and grain sorghum continued to be cut as farmers and ranchers searched for sources of hay to feed livestock.