Overview Reports from contacts provided a mixed but positive picture of the District economy through mid-July. While retail sales generally have been above year-ago levels, they have been below merchants' expectations for this summer. Manufacturers slowed production seasonally in July, and many revised downward their expectations for growth through the end of the year. While tourism generally has been strong in most of the District, several popular regional travel destinations have reported year-over-year declines in business. Home sales and construction continue to outpace year- ago levels, but Realtors and builders have become more cautious about their prospects for the remainder of the year. Commercial and multifamily real estate markets continue to improve, and Realtors report that the number of speculative developments underway in the District is increasing. Bankers noted that overall loan demand improved slightly during the last month, with commercial lending growing more rapidly than consumer lending. Although several local area labor markets continue to be tight, wage pressures remain muted. Factory and retail contacts reported little change in the prices they are receiving for goods and services rendered. Consumer Spending A majority of District retailers reported year- over-year increases in sales through mid-July, although many also commented that sales have been below their expectations. While sales of apparel have improved over this period, sales of durable goods, particularly home products, have slowed. Retailers generally say that they expect flat to modest increases in fall sales compared to year-ago levels. Inventories were characterized as on target throughout the District. Manufacturing Factory activity slowed seasonally in July, with contacts reporting decreases in production and shipments in most industries. Inventories of finished goods increased, and contacts reported that they were less optimistic than before about the near- term outlook for their businesses. An increasing number of firms expect new orders to slow in the next few months, with production remaining relatively flat over the period. Apparel producers continue to report declines in overall business along with plant consolidations and closings. By contrast, producers of home furniture and appliances expect to see modest improvement through the end of the year, as recent home buyers furnish their new domiciles. Tourism and Business Travel Tourism and business travel continues to be strong in most of the District through mid-July. Approximately two million visitors are expected to visit Atlanta and other District cities during the Summer Olympic Games. However, while many local sites have seen significant gains in tourism prior to and during the first week of the Olympics, in Atlanta contacts characterized the situation as "feast or famine." Generally, heavy spending near Olympic venues has provided a notable contrast to the disappointingly light traffic recorded at some of the District's other traditional tourist destinations, and a large suburban sports- related festival was prematurely closed after very light attendance. As of this writing, the tragedy in Centennial Olympic Park has had no negative impact on event attendance, and is unlikely to have any notable economic consequence. Outside of the Olympic spotlight, many cities in Florida have benefited from a surge in tourism and business travel, much of which has been fueled by the large number of Atlantans who are vacationing and doing business outside of the city for the duration of the Games. Construction Most real estate contacts reported that single-family home sales were above year-ago levels in June and early July. However, builders said that by mid-July the pace of home construction had slowed from the rapid pace recorded earlier in the year. Contacts in much of Georgia reported year-over-year declines in homebuilding in the last two months, although gains were reported in northern Alabama and Nashville. Most Realtors characterized current home inventory levels as adequate, although supplies remain tight in some local areas. Realtors generally said that their outlook had become more cautious in the last month. Multifamily homebuilding and commercial construction continue to improve in most areas. Low vacancy rates and rising rents continue to support new industrial and office development, although the pace of retail construction has moderated. While most commercial projects continue to be build-to-suit, several speculative developments are underway, and more are expected to be announced in the next six months. Most real estate agents anticipate moderate-to-strong growth in commercial and multifamily construction through the end of the year. Financial According to contacts in the banking industry, overall loan demand rose in July compared with June, although it was flat when compared with year-ago levels. While mortgage lending generally has held steady, auto lending slowed during the month. Commercial lending improved moderately. Wages and Prices Contacts generally said that wages were stable over the last month, with fewer complaints of labor shortages being reported. While service and retail sector employers continue to note a lack of applications for entry-level positions, a majority of contacts in the skilled professions characterized labor supplies as adequate. Fewer contacts expect to hire new employees than was the case in early summer. Manufacturers and retailers both indicated that prices remain subject to intense competitive pressures, both from international firms seeking to increase their share of U.S. markets, as well as from domestic consumers who remain vigilant in their search for bargain-basement prices.