Summary The Seventh District economy continued to expand through June and July at a slightly slower rate than in our last report. Retail sales growth was positive but continued to lag that of the nation. Residential housing activity lost some momentum, but overall construction activity continued to increase. The manufacturing sector, bolstered by strong demand for durable goods, expanded in June and July but showed some signs of slowing toward the end of the period. Banking activity remained strong, while several financial institutions noted a continued rise in delinquency rates. Despite tight labor markets and continued strength in the economy, there was little evidence of accelerating increases in wages or other input costs. Grain prices fell as crop conditions improved and cuts in livestock production eased concerns about tight grain supplies. Retail sales Retail sales continued to increase in year-over-year comparisons, but the growth rate slowed slightly from June to July. Several large retailers noted that sales growth in the District remained below their national averages. Slower-than-expected sales gains resulted in some unintended inventory buildup, most notably in electronics and seasonal items, such as air conditioners and lawn and garden equipment. One retailer described demand for summer goods as "nonexistent". Most retailers, however, reported that inventories were in good shape and much better than at the same time last year. Auto dealers reported that sales were strong and that showroom traffic remained high. Housing/Construction Growth in the housing industry lost some of its momentum in June and July but most contacts noted that the market remained very strong. Several home builders and realtors reported that activity had picked up from May's weather-induced slump, but not as much as anticipated. Shortages of skilled labor and some building materials hindered contractors' efforts to make up lost time in many areas. A few metro areas were reporting inventory buildup, but most contacts noted that builders were not concerned and were not using incentives to clear inventories. Most builders and realtors reported that the first-time buyer segment remained robust. Contacts in some of the District's largest metro areas reported that office vacancy rates continue to fall and may be at a level that could spur new construction. A realtor in one of these areas noted that several large projects were already underway and that "this is the best office market (he's) seen in 5 1/2 years". Manufacturing Most District manufacturers reported strong demand and lean inventories heading into the third quarter, while upward pressure on costs remained constrained. Purchasing managers' surveys indicated modest expansion through June and early survey returns showed that the expansion continued in July, but at a slightly slower rate: Survey results from one major metropolitan area indicated slowing production growth from June to July with some inventory building; new orders, however, remained quite strong. Appliance and machinery producers reported that demand was being buoyed by the continued strength in housing and construction activity. Auto suppliers noted that production was at capacity and a shortage of parts was hindering light truck assemblies. Several steel analysts indicated that orders were still strong and inventories remained lean at every level. Despite the continued increase in activity, there was little evidence of acceleration in price increases. While costs of some inputs continued to drift upward, several producers indicated that they were unable to pass along these increases to final goods purchasers. However, steel producers reported some success in getting their July price increases to stick. Banking Banking activity remained strong through much of July, although several financial institutions reported a continued rise in delinquencies. Most District contacts noted that business lending was the most vigorous segment of the banking market. One major bank reported its strongest business lending month of the year in June and indicated that this strength had continued into July. Several banks noted a modest scaling back in consumer and mortgage lending, but one large bank could find no let up in demand from its "high quality" customers. Many contacts expressed concern about rising delinquency rates for consumer and retailer loans, but viewed the increases to be within normal credit performance standards. Labor markets Labor markets remained tighter in the District than in the nation as a whole despite relatively slower job growth. The rebound in manufacturing employment noted in our last report was short-lived. Contacts from around the region and purchasing managers' surveys suggested flat to slightly reduced manufacturing payrolls in June and July. Shortages in professional and technical occupations persisted; shortages were particularly severe in the construction industry, where inclement weather in May and early June delayed many projects. Wage pressures remained subdued despite the very tight labor markets. However, some employers reported enhancing benefits packages to attract and keep workers, especially in the construction industry. Agriculture Corn and soybean prices fell sharply after hitting new highs in mid-July. Crop conditions across District states were mixed, but overall were rated slightly below normal as of the end of July. Late plantings and subnormal temperatures have increased the risk of damage from an early frost this year. Nevertheless, recent rains and forecasts of favorable weather through early August, a critical period for plant development, have buoyed District crop prospects. Updated reports showing surprisingly large cuts in livestock and dairy production, especially in District states, have added to the decline in crop prices. Sudden sluggishness in grain exports also eased earlier concerns about tight grain supplies this summer.