Overview The district economy continued to grow at a moderate pace during the past month. Retail sales increased modestly, manufacturing and construction activity remained strong, and activity in the energy industry picked up. In the farm economy, however, continued financial losses in the cattle industry held down farm income, despite strong crop prices. Labor markets stayed tight for both entry-level and skilled workers, although reports of rising wages remained widely scattered. Overall retail prices were steady, even though prices rose for some materials used in manufacturing and construction. Retail Sales Retailers report sales improved modestly during the past month and remained above last year's level. Sales of apparel were strong, while sales of appliances and other electronic products were weak. Retailers generally expect sales to remain strong the next couple of months before slowing somewhat near the end of the year. Although most retailers were satisfied with their current inventory levels, some were trimming inventories. Automobile dealers report increased sales last month that stayed well above last year's level. Sales are expected to remain strong in the months ahead. Dealers indicate automobile inventories were generally smaller than desired, due to the transition to the new model year and to continued strong demand for light trucks and sport utility vehicles. While dealers report that high consumer debt has lowered the quality of applications for automobile loans, they indicate that overall credit quality appeared stable. Manufacturing Manufacturers continued to operate their plants at high levels of capacity use, and some plants report an increase in overtime work. None of the manufacturers, however, indicate capacity constraints caused production bottlenecks. Manufacturing materials were readily available with normal lead times, although some manufacturers report temporary difficulty in obtaining steel. Manufacturers were generally satisfied with their inventory levels, although some were reducing inventories slightly. Housing Most builders report housing starts held steady last month but at a much faster pace than last year's. Single-family homes accounted for most of the construction activity, although construction of multifamily units remained brisk. Builders expect construction activity to remain strong through the end of the year. Sales of new homes picked up slightly last month and remained well above last year's pace, despite a relatively low inventory of unsold homes. Prices of new homes held steady, staying somewhat higher than last year's level. While building materials were readily available, prices rose slightly, especially for lumber and roofing materials. Most mortgage lenders expect mortgage demand to remain strong through the end of the third quarter. Banking Banks generally report total loans grew somewhat faster than deposits last month, slightly boosting loan-deposit ratios. Most banks report gains in home mortgage and home equity loans. Home construction loans, commercial real estate loans, and commercial and industrial loans held steady, while consumer and agricultural loans declined. Banks also report gains in demand deposits, NOW accounts, and MMDAs. Security investments held steady while large CDs, small time and savings deposits, and IRA and Keogh accounts declined. All respondent banks held their prime lending rates steady last month, although a third of the banks expect to increase their prime rate in the near future. Half of the respondents raised their consumer lending rates slightly last month, and a few banks expect a further increase in the near future. Lending standards were unchanged. Energy Activity in the district energy industry picked up in June. Prices of crude oil and natural gas stayed well above last year's level. As a result, the number of drilling rigs operating in the district rose 15 percent above last year's level. Agriculture The district's winter wheat harvest is nearly complete. As expected, wheat yields ranged from normal to poor, due to the unusually dry winter and spring in Oklahoma and Kansas. Recent rains, however, have brightened prospects for the district's corn and soybean crops, which are generally in good to excellent condition. While recent improvements in crop growing conditions have pushed crop prices down, prices remain much higher than a year ago. Cattle feedlots and ranches continue to operate at a loss, due to high feed costs and weak cattle prices. Agricultural bankers report that district feedlots have cut production, with many operating at only half to three-fourths of capacity. In addition, ranchers have trimmed herds by selling older, less productive cows. Overall, little improvement is expected in district farm income this year, as continued financial losses in the cattle industry largely offset financial gains by crop producers. Wages and Prices Although supplies of both entry-level and skilled workers remained tight in much of the district, reports of rising wages were widely scattered. Retailers report a tight supply of minimum-wage workers, and some retailers believe the recently legislated increase in the minimum wage will eventually push up retail costs. Manufacturers indicate that most kinds of workers were in short supply, including welders, machinists, and clerical workers. One manufacturer paid more overtime instead of raising wages, and some manufacturers increased wages slightly. Prices rose for some manufacturing materials, especially steel, some paper materials, and some plastics. Prices generally held steady at the retail level, with retailers expecting little change in prices in the months ahead.