Overview Fifth District economic growth moderated somewhat in June and July. Manufacturers reported slower activity, particularly in textiles. Decreased imports led to a decline in port activity, and sluggish housing sales translated into weaker residential construction. Service sector activity expanded; retail sales grew at a steady pace; and commercial real estate activity strengthened. Contacts in several sectors continued to report wage pressures. Despite the adverse impacts of Hurricane Bertha, tourism expanded and yield prospects for some crops improved. Retail Trade District retailers reported that retail sales growth changed little in recent weeks, although big-ticket sales, inventories, and shopper traffic grew more slowly. Respondents to a mail survey indicated that employment growth picked up and wages rose faster in July. Over the past several weeks, retail prices rose at a faster rate and retailers expected the rate of increase to accelerate somewhat during the next six months. Contacts anticipated a slight decrease in demand for their products in the second half of the year. Services Service producers contacted by mail indicated that the pace of business activity increased in July. Revenues and wages grew more quickly and employment growth was unchanged. Service producers said their prices rose faster in July than they had in June. Respondents expected prices and demand for their products to rise during the next six months. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity weakened in July and tight input markets continued to constrain some firms. Except in West Virginia, respondents to a mail survey of District manufacturers reported declines in shipments. Most durable-goods producers indicated that new orders had weakened in July, although one West Virginia manufacturer noted that his company had difficulty meeting its customers' delivery requirements. Manufacturers continued to indicate that their inventories were above desired levels. Textile manufacturers reported that sluggish apparel sales forced them to cut back production to avoid inventory buildups. Several industrial machinery and equipment suppliers reported that their output was constrained by a scarcity of skilled labor. Manufacturers indicated that finished goods prices increased slightly and that raw materials prices were down slightly in July from June. Respondents' six-month outlook was for lower finished goods prices and somewhat higher raw materials prices. Tourism Tourist activity continued to pick up in July despite the effects of Hurricane Bertha along the District's coastal areas. Our contacts noted that activity during the Fourth of July holiday was above a year ago and they attributed the increase to unseasonably mild weather and the holiday falling late in the week. One contact from a popular mountain resort in West Virginia reported that the Fourth of July tourist activity was the strongest in that resort's history. Hurricane Bertha inflicted only minor property damage along the District's coastal areas, but a contact from North Carolina's Outer Banks told us that the area lost over $5 million in business revenues after tourists were evacuated. A hotel manager in the Virginia Beach area said he had 300 rooms vacant because of the hurricane. Contacts reported that summer bookings continued to look good. Port Activity Activity at District ports declined in June from May. When compared to a year ago, export shipments increased and imports fell. Port representatives continued to anticipate that exports and imports would increase during the next six months, with five of six ports expecting exports to rise faster than imports. One port contact attributed the pickup in exports to increased shipments of poultry to Eastern Europe and auto parts to South America. Temporary Employment The demand for temporary workers continued to increase in recent weeks. Demand was particularly strong for secretarial help, skilled warehouse and production workers, and computer-literate workers; the need for general laborers declined. In most areas of the District, temporary workers' wages were unchanged, and contacts in those areas expected little change during the next six months. However, in areas of the District with low unemployment and a shortage of skilled labor, temporary-worker agencies reported pay hikes and expected further increases in coming months. Finance District contacts reported that overall loan demand softened slightly in the last six weeks. The demand for mortgage loans, especially refinancings, continued to weaken in the face of higher interest rates. Many contacts noted that while higher mortgage rates had pushed some marginal home buyers out of the market, some qualified buyers were "priced out psychologically" by the higher rates. According to several lenders, current economic and political uncertainty had also left many commercial borrowers "sitting on the fence." However, one contact noted that since the first of June, lending for commercial real estate development in his area had picked up considerably. Residential Real Estate District real estate agents and homebuilders contacted by telephone indicated that residential real estate activity softened somewhat in most areas of the District in June and July as potential home buyers' interest waned. Builders reported that they took out fewer building permits and started slightly fewer homes. A West Virginia homebuilder reported that the largest supplier of residential electrical supplies in his area went out of business because of sluggish housing construction activity. District real estate agents said that, despite higher customer traffic, sales were sluggish. One contact summed up the situation by observing, "the traffic is nice, but the sales conversion ratio is low." Despite somewhat lower activity, pressures on inputs markets remained. Lumber prices increased and subcontractor wages rose. A South Carolina homebuilder told us, "we are scraping bottom for labor in our area." Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate activity picked up in June and early July. Commercial real estate brokers contacted by telephone indicated that leasing activity continued to escalate; one South Carolina contact said activity in his area was at a "fevered pitch." Vacancy rates declined, and rental rates continued to climb, as they have since last fall. A South Carolina contact noted that "rent concessions have evaporated," and a North Carolina respondent said she expected the market in her area to stay "landlord- oriented." The availability of prime office space continued to tighten, and many contacts reported shortages. Respondents throughout the District, and especially those in North Carolina, witnessed an increase in new construction. State Revenues State tax collections were higher in West Virginia but were flat in other District states in June. Withholding tax collections increased significantly in West Virginia as employment growth improved over the past two months, particularly in the construction and business service sectors. Growth in retail sales collections remained the same in South Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia; were slightly lower in Maryland; and rose substantially in North Carolina. Real estate receipts rose in Maryland and West Virginia. However, one Virginia contact indicated that fewer mortgage refinancings had reduced real estate recordation receipts. Agriculture Intense storms damaged some District crops, but the rains associated with the storms benefited others in recent weeks, according to agricultural analysts. Hurricane Bertha caused up to $180 million in crop damage in North Carolina, over half of that to the tobacco crop. Corn and cotton also sustained substantial damage. On the plus side, Bertha's rains were credited with saving the corn crop in the eastern areas of Maryland and Virginia that had been suffering from severe drought; an agricultural extension agent now looks for a "bumper" corn crop there. Post-Bertha thunderstorms in late July led to scattered crop damage in parts of Virginia and Maryland, but also improved District crops' yields prospects.