Summary Manufacturing activity remains weak in the District, but some firms report increased activity. The health services sector continues to add employees. Retailers report holiday sales comparable to year-ago levels. Residential construction continues to improve, although construction financing is still a constraint for some builders. Loan demand remains depressed, especially in the consumer loan categories. District farmers report low cotton and hog prices, but strong wheat prices. Manufacturing Although District activity remains slow in the manufacturing sector, several bright spots were noted. For example, an electrical equipment contact reports that orders were steady last month and inventories were in good shape relative to demand. A power tool manufacturer in Arkansas reports strong sales, especially in its export markets. A paper manufacturer reports stable sales for its packaging paper, but declining sales of paper for advertising supplements. A paper products company announced the development of a new plant with about 200 employees in Bowling Green, Kentucky. Employment The District has been spared the brunt of recent cutbacks in the domestic auto sector because the models produced in the region are strong sellers. In fact, one Missouri auto plant has recalled at least 1,000 workers for a third shift because of continued strong demand for minivans. Two months after laying off 1.300 employees, the nation's largest shoe manufacturer announced another round of plant closures, affecting 1,150 workers throughout Missouri. Reasons stated for the closures include high labor costs and a "truly terrible" market for shoes. A Kentucky tire manufacturer recalled its workers to replenish its inventory, reflecting a new contract with a domestic auto maker. Growth in service-sector employment has cushioned some of the losses in goods-producing sectors. For example, a telecommunications firm in Memphis plans to add 100 workers, the second increase in six months. In St. Louis, growth in health services jobs (2,800 in 1991) has helped offset cutbacks at the area's major firms. Consumer Spending Retail sales in the District were mixed for the 1991 holiday season. St. Louis and Memphis contacts report sales of non-auto merchandise were little changed from last year, while the Louisville and Little Rock regions posted modest to significant increases. Apparel, electronics, jewelry and small-ticket items sold well, as contacts believed consumers were looking for values. Big-ticket items were more heavily discounted than general merchandise; however, price- cutting overall was at the same level as last year. Inventories in St. Louis and Memphis are currently at desired levels, while reports from Little Rock and Louisville state that inventory levels are lower than anticipated because of careful buying by store managers and a favorable holiday shopping season. Despite cautious optimism about the first quarter, many retailers do not expect sales to pick up until later in the year. Construction and Real Estate District homebuilders report flat or modest activity in new home construction. The exception is in northwest Arkansas, which continues to show strong growth in both single- and multi-family home construction. Most District builders believe the industry has bottomed out and that conditions will improve significantly by mid- 1992. Construction financing is still reported to be constrained. Despite the lowest mortgage rates since the mid-1970s, many buyers are still hesitant to commit because of job security concerns. New and existing home prices are relatively stable, despite increases in materials costs for builders. The nonresidential construction sector, with the exception of public works projects, is still very weak throughout the District. Banking Loans on the books of District banks are still flat or declining. The lackluster holiday sales season is reflected in consumer lending data: consumer loans declined 1.6 percent at the District's largest banks during the last four months of 1991. The only major category of loans to show growth during the last third of 1991 was commercial loans, which rose 0.3 percent. District bankers report that most real estate loan activity is related to mortgage refinancing. Agriculture and Natural Resources The winter wheat crop in the District is in mostly fair to good condition, except in parts of Arkansas where flooding has caused some damage. Wheat prices remain relatively strong. Contacts report weak or falling prices for cotton and hogs, while cattle prices have firmed. Livestock is mostly in good condition. Lumber producers in the District report weak demand; however, Southern Pine lumber producers report that prices held firm through the end of the year. Coal production, although down by 8 percent from last year, has increased significantly in recent weeks.