Summary Most sectors of the District economy softened over the past six weeks, although there were signs of improvement in several key sectors. Reports from retailing contacts suggest that sales over the holiday season were essentially flat with a recessionary year- earlier period. Auto sales generally remained weak around the District, although several large dealers reported solid sales improvement in recent weeks. Combined car and light truck production schedules call for first quarter 1992 assemblies to be even with the fourth quarter of 1991 on a seasonally adjusted basis. New softening in production outside the auto industry also contributed to recent weakness in District manufacturing activity. As a result, District manufacturing employment softened as the year ended. Lower home mortgage interest rates have mainly generated higher levels of refinancing activity, but have also sparked some improvement in the District's home resale market. Retail Sales District retail sales for the holiday season were about flat with weak sales last year, despite widespread discounting and heavy promotional activity. Large retailers reported that sales in the District generally followed the national pattern. This is in marked contrast with last Christmas, when District sales held up well compared to the national average. One large chain stated that discount-driven sales gains (on a year-over-year basis) recorded in the last two weeks of December reversed a sharp year-over-year sales decline early in the holiday season. Sales strength was concentrated in soft goods, and inventories of many items, especially "big- ticket" appliances, remained above plan. Another large chain reported that year-over-year sales gains improved as December progressed, with small appliances performing relatively well, This chain's sales in District markets were mixed, but showed some improvement from previous months on a seasonally adjusted basis. The company's inventory remains well above plan, and the firm is committed to cutting stocks further. A large survey of independent retailers in Illinois and Northern Indiana indicated that year-over- year sales declines worsened over the latter half of 1991. The preliminary results of a post-holiday survey of Michigan retailers showed that the percentage of stores reporting year-over-year sales declines for the holiday season was well above "normal" levels. A manufacturer's representative stated that financing receivables from several large discount chains grew increasingly difficult in recent months, citing growing lender concern with the retailers' credit quality. Autos Reports from auto industry contacts generally indicated continued weakness in both car sales and production, although two recent reports from large auto dealers suggested some improvement in consumer demand. A supplier of financial services to many District auto dealers reported that most dealerships' sales remained weak. A domestic auto producer stated that dealer orders remained weak, and showroom traffic has yet to improve from fourth quarter rates. Reports of continued sluggishness in auto sales are not universal, however. One of the largest dealers in the District stated that sales improved markedly during December and early January, citing improvement in customer and salesperson confidence. This dealer has begun to rebuild inventory, after remaining extremely cautious over the latter half of 1991. Another large dealership is optimistic about sales in the first half of 1992, and recently ordered a "slew" of lower-priced new cars in anticipation of a surge in sales. Declining interest rates have substantially reduced this dealership's inventory financing costs. An auto industry analyst expects combined car and light truck production in the first quarter of 1992 to be essentially flat from the fourth quarter of 1991 on a seasonally adjusted basis, although first quarter car production depends on planned assemblies that have been pushed forward into March. If sales do not improve as the first quarter progresses, this analyst expects production schedules to be cut further, making the auto sector a drag on the District economy. Manufacturing Purchasing managers' surveys and direct contacts suggest that the recovery in District manufacturing activity stalled late last year, and industrial production in the District may have declined on a seasonally adjusted basis. The Chicago purchasing managers' survey index, like that for the nation, weakened in December, and dropped below 50 percent for the first time since June 1991. Significant declines in the production, new orders, and order backlogs components accounted for most of the weakness in the overall Chicago index, while the inventory and employment components remained below 50 percent. Likewise, the most recent surveys in Detroit, Milwaukee, and Southwest Michigan each indicated some loss of momentum. A large appliance manufacturer stated that first quarter shipments were expected to be below a weak year-ago period. A large manufacturer of heavy equipment noted that orders from customers in primary metals, paper, and petrochemical industries remained soft in December and early January, with little sign of a turnaround in sight. A large manufacturer of communications equipment reported that orders remained mixed, citing weak demand from two key markets, construction and state and local governments. At the same time, this manufacturer stated that December orders for semiconductors were the highest for that month since 1987, despite continued weakness in orders from the auto and personal computer markets. Employment In November, total payroll employment in the District fell significantly on a seasonally adjusted basis, led by the first drop in District manufacturing employment since April. The continued decline in national manufacturing employment in December was concentrated in several key District industries, including industrial machinery and fabricated metals. The results of purchasing managers' surveys also suggest that District manufacturing employment continued to weaken in December. The pace of layoff announcements by District firms appears to have increased in recent weeks, and could affect future employment in a wide variety of industries, including consumer goods manufacturing, transportation, technology, and communications. Most of the major plant closings that are likely to follow General Motors' restructuring announcement are expected to be outside of the District, but the impact on white-collar employment and independent parts suppliers will put a further drag on District employment. Unemployment rates in Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan have been running above the national average, and Illinois' unemployment rate rose from 7.7 percent October to 9.3 percent in December. The District employment outlook still has some bright spots, however. Several Chicago-area executive recruiters reported significant increases in recent weeks in the number of manufacturing firms looking to hire people, although improved demand has been concentrated in requests for higher-skilled personnel. A placement firm specializing in technically-oriented sales and marketing personnel reported that "business is booming." After a significant decline in the first three quarters of 1991, this firm enjoyed a record fourth quarter. Another placement firm noted that "we are seeing a lot of optimism on the industrial side." One recruiter stated that strength in demand was even evident in the steel industry. Real Estate/Construction Reports from District realtors and financial institutions indicate that lower home mortgage rates have principally affected refinancing activity, but have also helped spark some improvement in the existing-home sales market. A large realtor reported the best December sales month in its history, with transaction volume substantially higher than in December 1990. One financial analyst stated that consumers' gains from refinancing could be postponed, however, as refinancing volume is taxing processing capacity. This contact reported that smaller banks appeared to be increasingly interested in making new residential mortgage loans in recent weeks. Commercial construction remains weak, and cement shipments and construction contract awards suggest that overall building activity in the District is now about as weak as it is nationally. A large cement producer specializing in commercial construction in the Chicago area reported that shipments declined substantially in December from the previous year, and the December decline was much sharper than the decline for the year to date. The outlook for this firm's cement shipments is supported by the prospect of higher public works spending in 1992, and the firm is also seeing improvement in demand for cement used in residential construction projects. Not one respondent to a recent nationwide survey of commercial real estate professionals expected property prices, on average, to rise, from 1991 to 1992. The anticipated median price decline in the Chicago area was larger than decline expected for the nation as a whole.