Economic activity in the Third District appeared to be steady in late December and early January, based on reports from major business sectors. Manufacturers generally indicated that business was steady although some firms were trimming working hours. For most retailers, Christmas season sales were even with the prior year in current dollars. This was below expectations, and many stores were holding special January sales to reduce inventories. Bankers reported that loan demand remained essentially flat except for a surge in mortgage refinancing applications in recent weeks as interest rates fell. Third District business contacts generally foresee some improvement later in the year. Manufacturers expect the pace of orders to pick up over the next six months. On balance, they are planning to add to payrolls and boost capital spending by midyear. Retailers anticipate a somewhat better sales picture, but not before the third quarter. Bankers are also looking to the second half for improvement; they expect a modest upturn in business and consumer lending to get underway then, although some believe residential mortgage activity could post healthy gains this spring with an increase in home sales. Manufacturing Reports from Third District manufacturers in early January were mixed, but on balance suggested that industrial activity was running at a steady pace. While shipments were moving up, area firms indicated that new orders were being received at just a level rate. Manufacturers gave mixed reports on inventories although it appeared that, on net, stocks were edging down. While employment was practically steady, according to a majority of companies contacted, one-fourth noted recent reductions in working hours. Nearly all manufacturers said prices for both inputs and the products they make were holding steady. Looking ahead, about three-fourths of manufacturers contacted for this report expect business to improve by midyear, and the rest were about evenly divided between those anticipating steady business and those expecting a decline. Overall, manufacturers look for an increase in orders to boost backlogs and lead to some further reduction in inventories over the next six months. In tine with this forecast, industrial firms in the Third District are planning to extend working hours and increase payrolls slightly. They are also scheduling some increases its capital spending for the first half of the year. Retail Most Third District retailers contacted for this report indicated that sales for the Christmas season were below their expectations. On average, sales were approximately even with 1990 in current dollar terms. Mass merchandisers and department stores generally saw sales slip marginally from 1990 levels while discounters and some specialty stores (especially mid-priced jewelry and apparel stores) posted gains. Nearly all types of stores were making further price cuts on a broad range of goods in January to reduce excessive inventories, and most merchants said that the pace of sales in the first week of the month was fairly steady. Store officials generally expect January sales to exceed the low levels of January 1991, but most expect the current November-January fiscal quarter results to just match the year-ago period in current dollars. Most retailers expect sales to remain slow at least until midyear. They hope that improving overall economic activity by that time will boost consumer confidence and lead to healthier sales. Nevertheless, many retail contacts do not expect a strong upward trend in consumption spending to develop. Expecting little short-term improvement in demand, and concerned that competitive pressures due to over-capacity will continue, store executives do not anticipate significant increases in revenues. Instead, many indicate they will be looking to improve operating efficiencies in order to bolster profit margins. Finance Most Third District bankers contacted in early January said loan demand remained soft except for a surge in applications for mortgage refinancings. Although there were a few reports of slight upturns in home purchase mortgages, mainly for lower-priced homes, real estate loans outstanding at major banks in the Third District continued to trend down. Bankers also described demand for consumer installment credit as flat to slightly down in recent weeks. Bankers generally reported a similar trend for commercial and industrial loans. On the whole, Third District bankers expect a gradual improvement in the economy and a slow pickup in lending to get underway around midyear. Bank lending officers said the recent decrease in interest rates will make debt service more manageable for business borrowers with floating-rate loans, leading to some improvement in credit quality for both current and potential borrowers; but bank lending officers generally do not expect the lower rates to prompt a significant upturn in demand for commercial and industrial credit. Some bankers said they expect increased homes sales in the spring to boost mortgage demand.