Overview Contacts in the District reported that economic activity in December was generally sluggish. Retailers saw disappointing Christmas sales that were even with to modestly above year-ago levels. Discounters benefited from increasing demand from price conscious consumers, taking market share from department stores and upscale shops. Auto sales showed no signs of improvement. Manufacturing activity remained slow, although firms in the printing and packaging industries reported modest increases in orders and production. Banking contacts report that loan demand was again flat. Home sales in the lower price ranges continued to show improvement, and realtors are optimistic for spring sales. Commercial construction, however, remained dormant. No exceptional wage or price pressures were reported. Consumer Spending With the exception of discounters, retailers contacted throughout the District reported that, in real terms, Christmas sales were even with year-ago levels. Discounters consistently outperformed department stores and reported sales gains over last year. The largest gains were noted in sales of "basics," not luxury goods, and were led by apparel items. Customers paid with cash more often than in previous years. Inventories remained lean but reportedly did not constrain holiday sales. Retailers do not anticipate significantly increasing new orders in the near future and are not optimistic about first quarter sales. Durable goods sales have not improved; automobiles and household appliances are particularly soft. While Florida contacts report increasing numbers of foreign tourists, this growth has not been sufficient to offset declines in domestic traffic. Per capita visitor spending is also down from a year ago. Manufacturing Few manufacturers in the region report increasing activity. Stagnant commercial construction continues to impact carpet producers adversely. Weakness in the furniture and auto markets is holding back textile production. While apparel producers note that demand for some lines, particularly athletic wear and denim products, is expected to continue to post good growth, new orders for other lines have been weak. Military contractors continue to report declining orders and employment because of defense spending cuts. Low steel prices and slack consumer spending on big ticket items are hurting a regional producer of steel for appliances. More positively, contacts said that employment remained stable and that orders have increased for producers of printed materials for business and for packaging of consumer products. Sales picked up in the fourth quarter for a large paper producer and recent product price increases appear to be sticking according to a company spokesman. Lumber and wood industry contacts expect demand to pickup sharply over the next few months as housing starts begin to improve. Financial Services The majority of bank contacts in the region reported that loan demand was flat in December and remained below year-ago levels. Several bankers expressed disappointment with the limited amount of new loan activity that has emerged since the recent reduction in interest rates. However, one contact did note that the drop in rates had sparked some optimism in the local business community. Lower rates have also resulted in a wave of mortgage refinancings. Most bank contacts report that the quality of their loan portfolios either stabilized or improved slightly in the fourth quarter. They added that their credit standards were essentially unchanged in the last six weeks. Auto dealers and construction contractors continue to report that credit is tight. Construction After adjusting for seasonal variations, most realtors reported improved December home sales compared to activity in recent months. The strongest sales are again in the lower to mid-price ranges as first-time buyers continue to be drawn into the market by lower mortgage interest rates. The luxury market is "quiet" and sizable price concessions are being made, according to most brokers. Several noted that people who are currently renting are now finding it possible to buy a home with comparable after tax payments. Most realtors expect continued sales gains and are optimistic for the spring. Single-family homebuilding has shown scattered signs of improvement. One broker reported a recent increase in sales of lots for lower-priced homes to developers. Contacts, however, said that multifamily construction remains at minimal levels with little improvement expected in the near future. Commercial construction remains depressed with high office and retail vacancy rates in many District cities. Contacts do not expect much new construction activity for the next several years. Several blamed lack of financing for curtailed commercial construction. Wages and Prices Contacts report ample supply of qualified workers with wage and input prices remaining relatively stable. Transportation firms are posting flat to slightly higher shipping rates. Citrus prices are holding up in a strong market.