Summary Economic weakness persists in much of the Twelfth District, although intermountain regions remain relatively healthy. Christmas sales were generally below expectations, although some pickup in post- holiday sales was reported. Manufacturing continues to contract in California, and little growth is reported in other parts of the District. Real estate markets arc generally sluggish, but residential sales activity shows same signs of bottoming out. Wage and price increases are modest, with the exception of health care. Significant mortgage refinancing activity is reported by lending institutions, though other loan demand remains weak. Consumers are reported to be using the savings from refinancing to reduce other debt levels, or shifting to shorter-term mortgages to build equity more quickly. Agricultural and resource industry conditions are mixed, with livestock and timber sectors reporting stress. Business Sentiment Economic expectations of Twelfth District business leaders remain subdued. Thirty-one percent of respondents now expect output to decline in at least two of the next four quarters, compared to 25 percent in November and 7 percent in September. An additional 56 percent expect the economy to expand, but at a rate below 2.5 percent. At the same time, the proportion of business leaders expecting improved business investment, consumer spending, and housing starts increased from November. The most optimistic expectations of business leaders were for housing starts, where 58 percent of the respondents projected some improvement in the next four quarters. Eighty-seven percent expect inflation to decline or remain stable. Wages and Prices Upward pressures on wages and prices remain minimal throughout most of the Twelfth District. Retailers are reported to have engaged in heavy discounting in response to sluggish holiday sales. Wage and price cuts also are reported in service sectors, including consulting, money management, entertainment, catering, and teaching. A significant exception is health care, where health benefit plan prices are expected to rise 8 to 20 percent in 1992. Lumber prices have been flat since mid-July, and most commodity prices are flat or falling. Most wage increases in the Twelfth District are reported in the 3 to 4 percent range, although manufacturing wages in Washington are reported to be rising 4 to 6 percent. Retail Trade and Services Christmas retail sales in the Twelfth District were generally at or below their weak 1990 levels, even with aggressive discounting used to attract wary consumers. Sales in California were down somewhat from last year. Low-end retailers appear to have had a slightly better experience. Sales in Utah and eastern Washington were strong. One retailer reports that in the eight days since Christmas, sales in California have been encouraging, about 5 percent above expectations. Auto sales are reported flat in California and down in the Puget Sound area, but show improvement in Idaho. Firms doing business with state and local governments are cautious due to budget problems, and are hiring consultants on contract rather than increasing the number of full-time employees. The demand for legal services is flat. The health services sector, however, continues to add jobs. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the Twelfth District remains sluggish, with the number of jobs in California continuing to contract due to cutbacks in aerospace and electronics. Boeing, however. is still producing at lull capacity and new orders for commercial aircraft, which had fallen in 1991, picked up in mid-December. The capital spending plans of several respondents remain little changed, apparently unaffected by recent interest rate cuts, though a major upgrade of an aluminum smelter was recently announced in eastern Washington. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Agricultural conditions in the Twelfth District are varied. Cotton, cattle, and fruit prices are down. Excess supply and falling consumer and export demand for beef has caused significant losses among feedlot operators. Losses are also reported by Idaho bean and potato growers due to low prices. Oregon agriculture, however, has had its best year in 10 years. Court injunctions have nearly halted federal timber sales in Washington and Oregon. Lumber product markets face moderate demand and price increases are expected. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate activity remains slow in much of the Twelfth District, with no significant effect yet seen from recent interest rate declines. In California, the housing industry is stagnant with prices of some upper-end homes dropping a reported 10 to 15 percent from their previous peak. The number of sales of existing homes, however, edged up in December after declining since May. Conditions are reported weak in Washington, with some slippage in home prices. Contacts in Arizona, however, report a slight increase in housing starts. Farm and ranch real estate sales in Idaho are off 50 percent from a year earlier due to weak agricultural conditions. Financial Institutions Twelfth District financial institutions report a significant increase in mortgage refinancings due to recent interest rate declines. The resulting savings, however, appear to be used for debt reduction rather than consumer spending. One-third to one-half of refinancing applicants are reported moving to a 15-year mortgage to build up equity with little change in payments. Outside of refinancings, loan demand remains sluggish, and margins are being compressed by lower interest rates. Weak earnings continue due to problem real estate loans.