Overview District economic activity was mixed in late December and early January, while confidence about the economic outlook rose. Retail sales were generally flat. Manufacturing activity declined, compared with stable activity in the previous survey. Both retailers and manufacturers, though, were more optimistic about their prospects over the next six months than they had been in the last survey. Lower mortgage rates lifted home sales in some areas and spurred refinancing activity and inquiries by prospective homebuyers throughout most of the District. Exports rose faster than imports at District seaports, and farmers began the new year with generally favorable weather and price conditions and improved balance sheets. State revenues were mostly on target, although some further expenditure cuts were expected in coning months. Consumer Spending Our regular mail survey indicated that District retail activity stabilized in December after several months of decline. Survey respondents said that sales, adjusted for seasonal factors, remained steady after November and that shopper traffic improved. Inventories, employment, and capital expenditures fell. Retail prices were stable, while wholesale prices and wages rose. Retailers were optimistic about sales and shopper traffic over the next six months. They expected wages, wholesale prices, and retail prices to rise and employment to fall further. Manufacturing Our survey of manufacturers indicated that District factory activity declined in recent weeks. By comparison, activity had been stable in the previous survey. Respondents reported decreases in most indicators. Exports increased, however, and little change was reported in prices or capital expenditures. Manufacturers' forecasts for the coming months were more optimistic than in the previous survey. They expected increases in all measures of economic activity except inventories, which they thought would be stable. Two-fifths of the respondents expected increases in manufacturing employment and total employment in their respective states. Ports Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that exports were generally higher in December than in November, while imports were unchanged. Compared with a year ago, export activity was higher and import activity was lower. Exports were expected to increase faster than imports during the next six months. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that credit standards were unchanged over the last six weeks. Although some banks noticed a slight increase in consumer and commercial loans, most reported that demand was flat over the period. All of the banks contacted had lowered their prime rates during the last six weeks, and almost all had reduced loan rates across the board. Lower interest rates, respondents said, have accelerated refinancings, which constituted a substantial majority of home mortgage requests. Housing Real estate analysts, homebuilders and mortgage bankers surveyed by telephone reported that the residential market remained mostly flat over the past six weeks. Some respondents, though, suggested that sales in their areas were beginning to increase. Many noted that lower mortgage rates had increased traffic and that hone prices were steady. In areas where sales remained sluggish, potential homebuyers were insecure about their jobs and income levels. State Budgets A telephone survey of state government forecasters indicated that revenues were mostly on target, except for a moderate shortfall in South Carolina. In contrast, the states experienced large shortfalls last year. This year's forecasts assumed more modest economic growth than did last year's. In several jurisdictions, December revenues from specific taxes were unusually strong, but forecasters were unsure of the reasons. Generally, tax revenues were still depressed by sluggish economic growth. North Carolina reportedly had no need for further expenditure cuts, and it was unclear whether South Carolina would have to trim its budget. Other Fifth District jurisdictions were considering major spending cuts, and several were considering tax increases. Several respondents said that rapid growth of federally mandated Medicaid spending continued to be a primary source of budgetary pressure. State government worker layoffs were considered likely in Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia. In West Virginia, cuts were expected to trim state agencies' material and travel budgets. Agriculture Farm analysts indicated that conditions in agriculture improved in recent weeks. Rain relieved dry conditions in most of the District and left the small grain crop in generally good condition. Hog prices, already below levels of a year ago, fell further in recent weeks; otherwise, most livestock prices were at or above year-ago levels. District farmers entered 1992 with a stronger financial position, thanks to relatively good 1991 crop yields and strong livestock prices.