Developments in the Second District economy since the last report were generally on the soft side. During November retail contacts were split between those with sales above and below plan while December results were generally below target. Residential construction activity remains low and office leasing activity slowed. District unemployment rates rose in December for the third consecutive month following a seesaw pattern during most of the year. Most senior loan officers at small and midsized banks reported no change in their willingness to lend. Consumer Sector District retail contacts had mixed results during November, splitting almost evenly between those with sales above and those with sales below plan. While December results were more uniformly below target, several retailers expressed pleasure that sales proved better than the dire media forecasts. The sales environment was very competitive and marked by considerable price-cutting which began very early in the holiday season. Despite relatively lean inventories, retailers were heavily promotional in an attempt to overcome anticipated consumer caution. Over-the-year sales changes at department stores ranged from -4 percent to +5 percent in November and from flat to +2 percent in December. An annual survey conducted by the Retail Council of New York State covering some 200 stores across the state found sales volume during the Christmas season to be generally unchanged from a year earlier. Items which sold relatively well included staples such as men's and women's sweaters, gloves, and outerwear as well as dresses, cosmetics and certain toys. Sales of big ticket items varied among respondents. Due in large part to a substantial pickup in sales during the two weeks surrounding Christmas, inventories were reported at or somewhat below targeted levels. Residential Construction and Real Estate Residential construction activity remains slow in the District due to both the season and generally sluggish demand. The high inventory of homes available in the resale market and consumer uncertainty about the economic outlook continue to be cited as major factors. Reportedly, much of the homebuying which is currently taking place is by first-time buyers and others in need of "affordable", lower- priced units. Two yet-to be-constructed communities in New Jersey and New York were recent sellouts because of their relatively low prices and attractive financing. Among other housing construction scheduled are an $18 million building in the Bronx to house homeless adults and, in all five boroughs of New York City, new housing for working and middle-class families under a recent $76 million federal grant. Office leasing activity slowed somewhat since the last report. Midtown Manhattan witnessed its second largest transaction or the year, but a sizable amount of vacant space was marketed and the primary vacancy rate rose. In downtown Manhattan, where no new construction is underway and several well-known buildings are undergoing extensive capital improvement, the vacancy rate declined for the second consecutive month. Other Business Activity District unemployment rates rose in December for the third consecutive month following a seesaw pattern during most of the year. New York's rate edged up to 8.1 percent from 8.0 percent in November while New Jersey's rate increased to 7.4 percent from 7.1 percent. Since the last report, plans for some sizable cutbacks have been announced which are likely to have a downward impact on local employment. Nynex, the local telephone company in New York state and New England, will reduce its workforce over the next two years by almost 10,000 and Xerox, which has several locations in the District, will eliminate 2500 white-collar positions by the middle of this year. Moreover, in the semiannual survey of the Manufacturers Association of Central New York, nearly 25 percent of respondents in January said they plan to cut employment over the next three months, up from 15 percent last July. On a more positive note, Ford and GM recently announced plans to invest a total of $350 million in their western New York plants over the next two years. Most of the money will be used for new machinery and retooling. In addition, a Dallas-based firm plans to move a manufacturing operation from the South to New York State. The December survey of Buffalo purchasing managers showed a doubling of the percentage of firms with fewer new orders and a substantial increase in the percentage with lower production. While some of this slowdown apparently is a seasonal pattern, the extent of it is somewhat greater than in December 1990. The November survey of purchasing managers in Rochester, however, showed a decline in the percentage anticipating a deterioration of business conditions over the next quarter. Financial Developments Most senior loan officers surveyed at small and midsized banks in the Second District reported that their willingness to lend remains unchanged from three months ago. Credit standards at most banks surveyed remain the same, though a few banks reported stricter standards for consumer loans. Most respondents stated that overall loan demand was stable with some variation across categories. Nearly all loan officers reported charging lower rates than three months ago, reflecting decreases in the prime rate. These lower rates have brought about increased demand for mortgage refinancings, even though the demand for new residential mortgages and construction loans remains weak. Those respondents noting a decrease in overall loan demand are using advertising campaigns and aggressive rate-cutting policies as a way of attracting new loans. The majority of banks surveyed report an increase in delinquency rates on all types of loans, forcing some to restructure existing loans.