Summary District economic activity has been uneven and generally weak. Despite a recent upturn in manufacturing, District employment has stagnated in recent months. Construction activity has declined as nonresidential building decreased. District lending activity slowed during the third quarter as consumer and commercial loan growth slackened. Agricultural conditions have been generally favorable for both crop and livestock producers. Employment The District unemployment rate dropped to 7.2 percent in August from 7.4 percent in July. The August jobless rate was below 7.0 percent in Missouri and Tennessee, but above 8.0 in Arkansas and Kentucky. District payroll employment was virtually unchanged between March and August, after growing at a 3.4 percent annual pace since the end of 1982. Employment in mining, construction, manufacturing and services has declined since the first quarter while growth in the remainder of the economy has been sluggish. Growth of services has been inhibited by a slowdown in health services. Despite the decline since the first quarter, District manufacturing employment has picked up in the most recent months, growing at a 2.4 percent rate in the three months through August. The recent growth was due to the continued expansion of food processing and turnarounds in the electrical equipment and textile/apparel industries. The number of transportation equipment jobs also increased as auto assembly workers returned from layoffs. Planned layoffs of auto workers in the St. Louis area in mid-October were postponed due to increased car sales. Regional production of shoes, concentrated in Missouri, has been growing steadily in recent months. The increase was attributed by some local analysts to the declining exchange value of the dollar. Construction Although District residential construction has advanced slightly compared with a year earlier, recent evidence is not encouraging. The value of residential contracts fell 4.5 percent in the June- August period. Contacts anticipate continued declines in residential construction due to recent and expected future interest rate increases. Multi-family housing construction has exhibited particular weakness over the past year as well as over more recent periods. Multi-family permits issued in the June-August period were 63.7 percent lower than a year earlier. The pace of District nonresidential building has slowed recently due to weakness in Arkansas and Kentucky. District nonresidential contracts expanded by only 2.4 percent in the three months through August following a 20.9 percent gain in the previous three-month period. Banking Total loans outstanding at large weekly reporting District banks grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate for the third quarter. For the same period in 1986, total loans expanded at a 13.3 percent annual rate. A slowing in consumer and commercial lending contributed to the recent quarter's slow growth. Consumer loans grew at a 9.1 percent rate during the quarter compared to 18.7 percent for the same period last year. Commercial lending in the District has also slackened, declining at a 2.4 percent annual rate. In particular, the St. Louis and Little Rock markets experienced notable declines in commercial lending during the third quarter. Real estate lending, however, picked up during the most recent period, rising at a 27.5 percent rate compared to a 19.3 percent rate for third quarter 1986. Agriculture The 1987 crop year has been generally favorable for District farmers. Harvests are far ahead of average due to early planting and ideal harvest conditions. Early harvested crops such as corn and cotton have recorded near-record yields due to favorable early summer conditions. Cotton prices have risen due to strong domestic and international demand. Yields of later crops such as soybeans have been reduced due to extremely dry conditions since mid-summer. The condition of pastures has also deteriorated for lack of rain. Livestock producers have enjoyed a profitable year due to low feed costs and favorable meat prices. Beef prices remain high and prices for feeder cattle are the highest since 1979. Pork prices also remain high but are expected to fall because increased production is anticipated.