Summary Business activity continues to expand in the Seventh District, restrained by the slowdown in the auto industry. Chicago purchasing managers report vigorous growth in September, accompanied by further price increases, and are optimistic about the outlook for business activity over the next six months. Milwaukee purchasers see further strengthening, particularly in orders and backlogs, with some hedge buying thought to be taking place to beat rising raw materials prices. The impact of auto production cuts, in response to slow sales, has been particularly sharp in southeast Michigan, and further cutbacks are planned by year-end. Nonresidential construction has remained relatively strong in the District. Residential building in the District is also outpacing the national demand for steel has shown the most broadly based strength since 1981. Consumer spending reports are mixed. The District's corn and soybean harvests are ahead of the usual pace. Pork production is expected to rise through 1988. Motor Vehicles The strike at Chrysler Canada, settled after 6 days, halted production at one District plant and reduced output at another for one to two weeks. However, agreements were reached on contracts at Ford in the U.S. and Canada and at GM in the U.S. with no interruption of output. Although third quarter sales incentives and production cuts brought car inventories down substantially, the restrained response of buyers to the incentives is a source of concern for the fourth quarter. Truck sales continue strong, but the District's share of U.S. truck assemblies is considerably smaller than its share of cars. In September, a southeast Michigan truck assembly plant eliminated its second shift, indefinitely laying off 2,000. Closings of two motor vehicle plants in southeast Michigan are planned by year-end. In contrast, a Japanese car assembly plant began production in September in that area. Two more assembly plants are being constructed in Illinois and Indiana. Heavy truck sales remain well above last year's pace, and also well above long-run replacement needs according to an industry analyst. Further small increases in sales of medium and heavy trucks are projected for 1988. Nonresidential Construction The pace of nonresidential construction continues relatively vigorous in the District. Contracts for nonresidential buildings, in square feet, were 10 percent above a year earlier in the District states during this year's first 8 months. Contracts for construction projects other than buildings, in dollars, were 15 percent higher. Construction activity continues at a high level in downtown Chicago. Additional large office buildings have recently been announced. Office construction has slowed in Chicago suburbs but remains at a high level, and light industrial building has picked up. Plans for auto parts plants have been announced for Illinois and Michigan to supply new Japanese assembly plants. Paving activity is expected to be strong in parts of the District this fall. Sections of the large construction project at O'Hare Airport are being pushed to completion. Steel The strength in steel demand is described as the most broadly based, in terms of product types, since 1981. Steel buyers and service centers reportedly are trying without success to add to stocks, reflecting demand for some types of steel near production capacity, and uneconomic mills not reopened or being renovated. Prices have been raised for most types of finished steel. Sharply higher prices for steel scrap reflect shortages at Chicago-area mills which have been buying scrap from other steel districts. Steel imports are expected to decline. Mills producing for the auto industry are booked to year-end and running behind schedule. Other Manufacturing Markets have improved considerably for abrasives and other "low- tech" products widely used in industry. Demand in the Midwest continues strong for paperboard. A box price increase went into effect in September with little resistance. Reflecting relatively good construction markets in the Midwest, cement shipments to District states have shown stronger gains from a year ago than the nation. Shipments of electrical equipment for installation in nonresidential buildings are expected to be strong in the fourth quarter. Export markets for large construction equipment remain restrained by the limited number of big projects around the world. A home appliance maker and a producer of ball bearings are shifting production out of the District to plants in other states with lower labor costs. Residential Sales and Construction Residential building permits in District states during the first 8 months of 1987 were about even with a year earlier, but have been below last year since April. Contacts reported an upturn in Chicago- area home buying and loan applications in August, prior to the September round of mortgage interest rate increases which appears to have pushed activity down again. The August rise was attributed to action by former "fence sitters" who had delayed buying and financing decisions following the spring upturn in mortgage interest rates. Mortgage interest rate volatility is viewed as more of a problem than somewhat higher but stable interest rates, because interest rate uncertainty causes would-be buyers and sellers to wait. Chicago-area mortgage interest rates have risen further over the past month, with 30-year fixed-rate loans commonly quoted at rates of 11 percent or higher. Sources also report an upturn in the number of Chicago-area mortgage bankers looking for jobs. Consumer Spending A large retail chain reports that sales in Illinois and Michigan remain fairly high, up from earlier this year. Iowa, which had been weak, continues to show improvement. Another large retailer located in the District indicated sizable sales gains from low year-ago levels, but not much strength in the seasonally adjusted trend in recent months. Gains from a year ago in apparel sales reflect in part the sharp rise in prices of imported clothing. Appliance sales were reported strong in September at this retailer, after showing less strength in July and August, but have tailed off in early October. Agriculture The fall harvest continues at a rapid pace in District states. Some 63 percent of the soybean acreage and 43 percent of the corn acreage had been harvested as of October 4, two to three times the normal progress for that date. Pork production which turned above year- earlier levels in the third quarter, will likely record sizable gains throughout 1988. Hog numbers in the ten major producing states are up 9 percent from a year ago and producer intentions point to an 8 percent rise in farrowings over the next six months. Somewhat larger increases are reported for Iowa, but the gains for Illinois and Indiana are smaller than elsewhere.