Overview Economic activity in the Tenth District is mixed, with some sluggishness in retailing and housing, some improvement in agriculture and the energy sector, and see evidence of strength in the industrial sector. Retail sales have been flat in recent months, and are expected to continue so. Manufacturers' input prices are increasing significantly and see inventory accumulation is occurring. Limited improvement continues in oil exploration and development activity. Housing starts are flat and are expected to slow in the near future, developments that are paralleled in the demand for mortgage funds. Loan demand at commercial banks continues weak. Crop conditions and harvests are generally good, and farm loan paydowns are expected to be above normal in the fourth quarter. Retail Sales While district retailers generally report sales above year-ago levels, sales over the past three months have been mostly flat. Soft goods appear to be selling somewhat better than hard goods. Prices are reported as generally stable with this trend expected to continue into the near future. Inventories are considered to be at satisfactory levels with a few respondents rising their inventories. Most retailers expect sales to show little growth in the near future. Automobile Sales Automobile dealers report that September sales were steady to slightly weaker compared with August and a year earlier. Inventories are expanding as dealers receive 1988 models. Overall, dealers are hopeful that sales will be stable or up slightly during the remainder of 1987. Purchasing Agents Purchasing agents report that prices have generally increased significantly over year-earlier levels. Most agents report increases in the past three months and all agents surveyed expect general price increases for the next three months. Most materials are readily available, but some agents report longer lead times. Though inventory levels are satisfactory overall, some increases are being made in response to seasonal factors and general market conditions. Energy Although a strong rebound in the district's energy industry is not likely to occur soon, some significant improvements in exploration and development activity has been observed in recent weeks. The average weekly number of operating drilling rigs in the Tenth District increased from 311 in August to 351 in the first three weeks of September, 63 percent above the average weekly level recorded in September 1986. Nevertheless, the rig count in the district remains less than one-fourth its 1982 peak. Housing Activity and Finance District homebuilders report that housing starts are at or below last year's levels and are generally down from a month ago. Single- family home construction remains flat while multifamily unit construction has decreased. Looking ahead, homebuilders expect housing starts to slow further. Most homebuilders report that new home sales are down and inventories are steady. Builders report that materials prices remain generally unchanged or lower due to competition among suppliers and they expect no problems with material availability, delivery, or price increases. Deposit growth at Tenth District savings institutions is reported down from a year ago, although respondents believe that aggressive rate increases could attract deposits. Any change in deposit growth would depend on different pricing. Demand for mortgage funds has fallen sharply and is expected to be sluggish during the remainder of 1987. Mortgage rates, which have risen substantially, are generally expected to increase slightly during the rest of 1987. Banking Respondents at Tenth District banks report total loan demand as either down slightly or unchanged during the month. Demand weakened for consumer, commercial and industrial, and residential real estate loans. Respondents reporting reduced demand for commercial real estate loans were about balanced by respondents reporting increased demand for these loans. Demand for agricultural loans held steady. Most respondents report having raised prime rates and expect to increase them further in the coming months. Responses concerning recent changes in consumer loan rates were split evenly between no change and slight increases. Most respondents expect to make no change in consumer loan rates in the coming months. Balances in all types of deposit accounts except large CD's generally remained constant, while a number of respondents report growth in large CD's. Agriculture The fall harvest and winter wheat seeding are progressing well across most of the Tenth District. The corn and soybean harvests are nearing completion in the southern parts of the district with a few exceptions. Good conditions have prevailed in the northern areas of the district as the harvests reach the half-way mark. Corn and soybean yields appear to be close to normal or a little above normal. The milo harvest is also under way, and excellent yields are expected. Winter wheat seeding is almost complete in district states. Good moisture and warm weather have prevailed throughout most of the district and good stands of wheat are appearing. Bankers expect farm loan paydowns in the fourth quarter to be above normal. Strong crop yield prospects contribute to this expectation, but the increased paydown levels are primarily attributed to livestock producers. Increased profits and fears that livestock prices may soon weaken have encouraged ranchers to pay down debt. In addition, continued high feeder cattle prices have discouraged operators from buying replacement cattle.