Summary, A Better Look The economic picture in the Seventh District brightened significantly in the past six weeks. Morale has improved and more consumers and businesses are activating deferred spending plans. The recent monthly meeting at the Federal Reserve Bank of a group of economists representing leading District companies was the most positive in at least two-and one-half years. Most of those present reported gains in demand and there were few new weaknesses. Also in October, purchasing managers' associations in Chicago and Milwaukee reported accelerating orders, output, and employment for September. Leadtimes on new orders have stretched out further, backlogs are rising, and more price increases are occurring. Retail sales are strong, but less so in the District than in the U.S. Inventories, in all but a few lines, remain lean, but are increasing in line with activity. Steel orders are rising, but still concentrated in the lighter grades. Residential construction plans have been dampened by high interest rates, probably more here than in the nation, but commercial construction has shown new strength. But Far Short of Prosperity The recent improvement in District activity should be kept in perspective. This region is still generally depressed. Its performance gap relative to the nation probably has widened during the recovery. Despite increased hirings, jobs are still hard to find. Where increases in demand for manufactured goods have been substantial, activity usually remains far below the peaks of the late 1970s. Agri-business remains very depressed despite prospective gains in farm income. The high value of the dollar continues as a powerful restraint on exports while encouraging imports. With the exception of a boom in truck trailers, orders for capital goods produced in the District have not improved much from the depression levels reached earlier in late 1982 or earlier this year. Improvement in Chicago and Milwaukee Monthly reports of purchasing managers in Chicago and Milwaukee have shown a gradual strengthening trend this year. In most respects, reports on September developments were the most vigorous of the year. Chicago managers found the area's economy "forging ahead," with "surging production" and "strong backlogs." The Milwaukee report showed "substantial improvement" with the highest proportion of respondents reporting higher production and new orders than at any time since the monthly survey was started in 1969. This recent improvement was from a very low base. Activity is still far short of prosperous levels. Perhaps the most significant aspect of these reports is the evidence that badly eroded confidence is rebuilding. Jobs and Income Employment has increased gradually in the District since last December, but probably not as fast as in the nation. Total payroll employment in the five-state area is still about 9 percent below the level of 1978-79. Manufacturing is off about 22 percent. Hiring intentions surveys and help-wanted ad volume indicate further gains for the months ahead. Unemployment rates are down, but welfare rolls are at record levels. Many long-term unemployed who have lost medical insurance are relying on public health programs. Nonunion employers are planning wage and salary increases in the 5 1/2 to 6 1/2 percent range for 1984, less than in past years, but surprisingly large in view of the weak job market. A number of long strikes are in progress in manufacturing, with unions resisting concessions on wages, benefits, and work rules. Chicago teachers settled a record 15-day strike on October 24, gaining a 5 percent salary boost, for which funds are not yet available. Their average salary is about $26,000 with liberal benefits. They eventually will be paid for all but one of the strike days. Autos Demand for cars strengthened dramatically in the summer and continues unabated in October. Dealers speak of "desperate" shortages of popular cars. Stock-outs of large, rear-drive, 8- cylinder cars have caused dealers to quote three-month delivery times, a situation unknown for many years. A similar problem exists for some Japanese models. Producers did not foresee this surge in demand for large cars. They are striving to boost production, hampered by some "quality problems." Capital Goods Truck trailer producers are expected to operate at capacity well into 1984. Mostly, this reflects the new size limits, but analysts believe that underlying demand also is improving. Companies report scattered increases in demand for communications equipment, heavy trucks, materials handling equipment, and a variety of components. Sales of equipment for mining, rail transport, marine transport, construction, agriculture, and metalworking have remained poor. With some exceptions export demand is "terrible." Much good used equipment is available at bargain prices. Capital expenditures of most firms are concentrated on outlays for replacement and modernization, including computers and other electronic equipment, rather than major new facilities. Steel Orders for steel have improved, but demand is still concentrated in lighter products with plates and structurals very slow. Order leadtimes for cold-rolled sheet and coated sheet are out three months, as far as bookings are taken. Some idle finishing capacity is being activated. Demand for steel for frames for trucks and large cars is strong. Shipments to service centers are up "sharply." Demand for oil pipe and railroad rails increased recently from very low levels. There is no evidence of inventory building by customers. Retail Sales Cold weather brought immediate gains in sales of fall and winter apparel. Consumers are in a confident mood and are using credit freely. According to big chains, sales are up less in the Midwest than in the rest of the nation. Inventories are tight and some sales may be lost if the Christmas season is strong, as is generally expected. Gains over last year's poor performance are likely to be substantial. Wholesale prices of general merchandise are expected to increase somewhat faster in 1984. Housing Residential construction in the District continues well above last year's extremely depressed level, but has probably declined since midyear after allowance for seasonal trends Rates on fixed-rate, long-term mortgages are now in the neighborhood of 13.5 percent. Variable rate mortgages are offered at about 150 basis points less, but are shunned by most home buyers. A wide variety of plans are offered. A general easing of terms probably is necessary to keep residential construction from declining further.