The southeastern economy is showing renewed strength. Labor markets in most areas and industries continue to strengthen. Demand for durable and nondurable manufactured goods is increasing. Retail sales in autumn appear to be sustaining the momentum attained in late summer, and merchants foresee an excellent holiday season. Housing sales, aided by easing mortgage rates, pent-up demand, enhanced variable-rate mortgages, and government bonds, have revived somewhat after slowing in August and September. Deposit growth accelerated in September after rising modestly during the summer, and but the rate of increase in loans, particularly to businesses slowed substantially after several months of healthy growth. Consumer lending, however, continued to expand. The tourist trade overall remains ahead of last year, but South Florida, middle and east Tennessee, and New Orleans have yet to enjoy significant improvement. Drought and reduced acreage have cut farm production and sharply curtailed business volume for farm-related businesses, but most farmers should fare better than in 1982 because of the Payment-in-Kind (PIK) program. Employment and Industry Employment is rising in a variety of industries, and jobless rates have fallen significantly in most states. After a long period of weakness, Florida's phosphate industry is recalling furloughed workers in response to apparent stockpiling by farmers who anticipate fertilizer shortages because of sharply increased crop plantings next year. Textile employment has been growing by a moderate but steady pace, and hours and earnings in the industry are up sharply from last year. Carpet shipments from Georgia mills have been quite strong. These trends portend further declines in Georgia's unemployment. Alabama respondents expecting recovery to stimulate the coal industry, believe that many closed mines will reopen soon. Huntsville's high-technology manufacturing base is expanding rapidly: two computer companies plan to hire a total of 1,500 workers in the near future. Automobile assembly plants in Georgia are recalling workers, and two new auto parts plants will soon open in Tennessee. The aluminum industry's resurgence has sparked demand for refining and smelting products, thereby stimulating Louisiana's chemical industry. Consumer Spending Consumer spending appears to be maintaining the growth evidenced by August taxable sales, which were more than 10 percent ahead of August 1982. According to many retailers, September and early October sales exceeded last year's levels and surpassed many retailers' projections. Moreover, unlike last year, promotional sales are playing a negligible role in current activity. Some merchants in Atlanta and north Florida report strong sales and increased profit margins on appliances and electronics items. However, most retailers indicate that the strong showing of fall clothing and back-to-school merchandise accounts for much of the recent surge in sales. Merchants anticipate an excellent holiday season. Despite the reported scarcity of new vehicles at dealerships, recent car sales figures continue to exceed 1982 levels. Construction Housing sales, which fell in August when conventional mortgage rates approached 14 percent, rose modestly in September. Easing of conventional rates and stability. in the EHA/VA rate helped rekindle sates. Realtors cite pent-up demand and buyer adjustment to higher interest rates as other factors in the quick revival of housing sales. Adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) are becoming more popular because many potential purchasers are unable to qualify for conventional loans at the current rate and since lenders have incorporated rate ceilings into ARMs, thereby reducing the risk to buyers. In Knoxville, Miami, and Mobile, ARM s have recently outpaced conventional loans, according to several realtors surveyed. Home buyers in Alabama and Knox County, Tennessee, have been aided by special issues of local government bonds from which proceeds were dedicated to financing housing. Florida recently announced a similar measure to assist Jacksonville residents. Commercial construction is on the rise for the third consecutive month. Nashville and Atlanta lead the Southeast in the development of new commercial projects. Realtors in those cities expect a continued strong economy to facilitate corporate relocations and prevent a potential glut of office space. Financial Services After growing slowly in July and August, deposits at thrifts and large banks escalated sharply in September. Large denomination, or jumbo, savings accounts of more than $100,000 sustained the strong performance of August and, with 2 1/2-year small savers certificates, accounted for most of the growth in savings capital at S&Ls. Time deposits and jumbo CDs contributed the largest shares to September's deposit gains at banks. In contrast, loan activity at large southeastern banks slowed significantly in September after advancing throughout the summer. Business lending, which failed to register a gain from August to September, was the primary source of this deceleration. However, consumer lending increased in September for the seventh consecutive month. A money center bank is backing Florida legislation to allow out-of- state financial institutions to establish de novo operations in the state, thereby permitting out-of-state banks to enter the market without acquiring existing institutions. The proposal is a response to a legislative initiative by Florida bankers to limit out-of-state banking to institutions from regional states with similar reciprocal agreements. Tourism The industry is entering its traditionally slow fall season after a summer that proved to be generally positive, except in south Florida, middle and east Tennessee, and New Orleans. Hotels and motels increased revenues in August even though occupancy levels were below comparable 1982 levels in many District cities. Hotel construction in central Florida and the apparently rapid absorption of expensive resort properties along Florida's north Atlantic coast augur continued growth in these areas. Attendance at most national park facilities and many private facilities also rose in the late summer relative to last year's figures; early fall attendance at private attractions that have added new exhibits, rides, or facilities is up over year-ago levels. However, heavy rains in August reduced visitation to state parks 5.7 percent below August 1982 levels, and industry representatives indicate that fewer people visited many older Florida and Tennessee attractions than last year. Air travel continues to strengthen from 1982 levels at most of the region's airports. Moreover, service to smaller cities continues to expand. Convention trade is reportedly rising compared to last year in New Orleans. The planned opening of more than 12 non-chain restaurants in the city during the remainder of 1983 betokens great confidence in the future of its tourism and leisure industry. The expansion and upgrading of a major hotel in Nashville should boost convention traffic after a sluggish summer, but contacts there expect little substantial improvement until 1984. In Miami Beach, increased business travel has helped offset the effects of fewer convention delegates. Agriculture As a result of drought and idled acreage, revenue from major crops this year is projected to be $5.2 billion, or 7 percent less than in 1982. The impact of the PIK program, however, should result in a 23 percent ($307 million) increase in net revenue above operating costs. District soybean production has fallen 42 percent from 1982 levels, but higher prices are likely to generate a 3 percent ($17 million) gain in net revenue above operating costs. Soybeans are the prime cash income crop in the Southeast. Most other regionally significant crops suffered similar drought-related productivity declines, and farm-related businesses are experiencing severe losses in volume and income. Producers of peanuts and tobacco, two important crops not covered by the PIK program, sustained especially heavy income losses because of drought.