Overview Reports from the Tenth District indicate further moderate improvement in economic conditions. Retail sales continue to improve, with generally stable prices. Prices of industrial inputs have shown recent increases, however. Inventories of industrial inputs and of retail goods are regarded as satisfactory, except among automobile dealers. Both housing starts and house sales have weakened, as have savings-inflows to savings and loan institutions. Fall crops suffered from drought and other factors, and livestock prices are falling as marketings increase. Both bank loan demand and bank deposits have increased recently. Retail Trade Total dollar sales in the first nine months of 1983 increased up to 7 percent over the same period last year, with widespread improvement reported for the past three months. Prices have been generally stable in 1983 and are expected to remain so through the end of the year. Inventory levels are reported to vary from satisfactory to a little high. A normal seasonal upturn in sales is expected for the rest of 1983, with the national recovery expected to contribute to further improvement. Automobile Sales Automobile dealers throughout the Tenth District report improved sales in 1983 from weak year-earlier levels, with the strongest gains occurring in Missouri, Kansas, and Colorado. Sales of domestic and import models are still being suppressed by low inventories. Easing of automobile credit conditions is evident in more aggressive marketing of automobile financing by banks. Banks are also soliciting loans to finance dealers' floorplanning. The outlook for the 1984 model year is very good, especially for mid-size to large- size cars, which is expected to increase the domestic share of the market. Purchasing Agents Almost half of the purchasing agents contacted report substantial increases in input prices since October of last year. In the past three months, almost all have experienced increases in the prices or their major inputs. But on average, little or no further change in input prices is expected through the and of the year. Few difficulties are being experienced in getting materials and none are expected through the remainder of 1983. In general, materials inventories are at satisfactory levels. None of the respondents are experiencing bottlenecks due to internal shortages of labor or plant capacity. Housing Activity and Finance Housing starts have been slowed by recent increases in mortgage rates, and further slowing beyond the usual seasonal decline is expected in the months ahead. The rate of new home sales remains relatively strong. New home prices have increased by 5 to 10 percent this year. Materials prices are slightly higher than a year ago; although lumber prices have declined somewhat since summer. Materials price increases are expected to be modest the remainder of the year. Savings inflows into savings and loans have declined from their rapid first half pace and are expected to be about the same this year as last. Rates on variable rate mortgages currently range from 11.5 to 12.5 percent, while fixed rate mortgages carry rates ranging from 13.75 to 15 percent. Interest rates are expected to vary around current levels with no clear trend through yearend l983. Agriculture Agricultural conditions vary widely across the Tenth District, but most bankers report that the summer drought has aggravated conditions in an already depressed farm economy. Although irrigated crops throughout the district produced record yields, Kansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma were severely affected by the summer drought and experienced large yield losses in fall harvested crops. All fall harvested crops were adversely affected by insect damage. Furthermore, New Mexico's milo, peanut, and cotton crops were reported to have been damaged by premature frost and hail. The planting of winter wheat is nearly complete in most district states and the crop is generally reported to be in good condition. But in isolated parts of Oklahoma, winter wheat may need to be reseeded due to recent flooding. Livestock prices continue to fall as marketings have increased due to rising feed costs and poor pasture conditions. No widespread liquidation of herds, however, is reported. Sales of farm equipment and farm inputs continue to be abnormally slow. The expected yearend increase in demand for farm equipment has not yet materialized, and probably will not. While some bankers in the Tenth District are optimistic about agriculture in the coming year because of high grain prices and fairly good yields, many others report an increasing number of problem loans and farm foreclosures. Banking Loan demand at Tenth District banks has increased slightly over the last month. Half of the respondents report an increase in commercial and industrial loans and a third report some increase in residential loans. The volume of consumer loans and agricultural loans has remained essentially unchanged. Almost all respondent banks have experienced an increase in total deposits during the last month. In most cases, this has been due to an increase in demand deposits. Conventional NOW accounts, Super-NOW accounts, MMDA's, and large CD's show little or no change. There has been relatively little response to the October 1. deregulation of small time deposits. All but two respondent banks indicate that they are not actively promoting the new, deregulated deposits. Most banks are paying about the same interest rates on the new deposits as they had been paying on the regulated deposits, and only a few banks have reduced their minimum deposit requirements. Consumer interest in the deregulated deposits has been weak, and most of the funds invested in them has come from the rollover of previously regulated time deposits.