Overview Economic expansion is continuing across a broad front in the Fifth District. In the manufacturing sector shipments and new orders have risen sharply in recent weeks, while employment and weekly hours have almost kept pace. Inventories are reported to be unchanged and are now nearly in line with desired levels. Retail sales also strengthened in recent weeks as both big ticket items and non- durables made significant gains. The consensus around the District appears to be that housing activity has hit a plateau and should hold near present levels, on balance, until spring. At the same time, commercial and industrial construction is expected to pick up slightly by year end. Expectations are also positive elsewhere, and overwhelmingly so among manufacturers. Manufacturing Among District manufacturers, shipments and new orders were up significantly from last month although order backlogs were down. Inventories showed virtually no change, either at the finished goods or materials level. Currently stocks are generally considered appropriate. Manufacturing employment and, particularly, the average work week, continued their month-to-month gains. There is still some support for the view that current plant and equipment capacity is inadequate and that existing expansion plans should be enlarged. There continue to be only scattered reports of price increases. A substantial majority of our contacts report stable prices, including employee compensation in recent weeks. Widespread optimism is still the prevailing attitude among District manufacturers. A large majority now foresee continued economic expansion nationally and in their respective localities and markets over the next two quarters. Almost none believes that activity will slow over that period. Consumer Spending Retailers also continue to report expanding activity in most areas and product lines. Widespread gains in sales are getting roughly proportional support from big ticket items. The brief slowing in durable goods reported earlier in the fall is now attributed to seasonal or supply conditions in the automobile sector where activity is once more reported buoyant. Also, retail inventories are continuing to accumulate rapidly, but without generating any particular concern among retailers. The number and size of outlets is also generally considered appropriate. District retailers, while still optimistic, continue to trim their expectations. The most commonly held view at this time is that the level of activity will be little changed over the next six months, but no respondent expects the level to decline in that period. Housing and Construction Housing activity remains something of a mixed bag looking across parts of the District. The evidence, however is that in most areas this activity has regained the levels of mid-summer. In addition, the most common expectation is that these levels of activity will be sustained for sometime to come, at least apart from seasonal influences. There is little sense that any problem, even potentially, is posed by big current rates of accumulation of new, unsold housing units. There is very little mention of mortgage rates these days. Commercial and industrial construction activity is still picking up somewhat, but new activity is hardly robust. Once again, however, expectations are generally positive. Most respondents foresee continued modest gains in C&I construction activity in coming months. It should be noted, though, that office space remains in excess in some metropolitan areas. Banking and Finance Financial institutions have apparently tried very hard to expand loans recently. Several respondents have suggested. the overall credit quality of their portfolios has declined as a result of their having sought ever wider circles of borrowers. At least partly as a result of these conditions in the loan markets, recent steps in the deregulation of deposits appear to have had little effect on either institutions or their customers. The most widely expected effect, judging from comments from around the District, is a longer term restructuring of financial institutions' liabilities. There is almost no expectation, however, of any significant short term changes.