Economic activity in the Second District continued to show improvement in recent weeks. In comparison to the mixed picture we reported in late summer, almost all Second District economic indicators now appear to be headed upward. Department store sales picked up sharply in late September when a long period of unusually hot weather ended. homebuilders have been quite busy and expect to remain so over the next few months. The brisk pace of office leasing activity was maintained in New Jersey and southern Connecticut and has begun to spread into midtown Manhattan as well. The New Jersey and Connecticut legislatures have authorized increased expenditures on upgrading roads and bridges, and New Yorkers will vote on an infrastructure bond referendum in November. The region's manufacturing activity expanded further, but employment gains are still slow. On the financial side, business loan demand is beginning to pick up. Consumer Spending The pace of retail spending in the Second District has shown some improvement in recent weeks. Most respondents stated that the unusually hot weather in the first half of September depressed sales. However, after the temperature cooled, widespread sharp gains were registered towards the end of the month. A New York State chain, for example, noted overall September sales showed no improvement over the year-ago level, but activity in the final week of the month was seven percent above the corresponding 1982 figure. Another large retailer with a lower-than-planned sales increase of five percent in September had a 15 percent gain in early October, albeit with the help of some special promotions. Only one merchant reported weakening of sales in October, citing the fact that the weather had not yet been cold enough to spur sales of warm clothing. Inventories were reported at satisfactory levels with only one retailer mentioning that they may be a little high. Sales at most stores remained at or above planned levels, and the outlook for the fourth quarter generally is optimistic. Construction and Real Estate Residential construction activity remained strong throughout the District and builders have contracts which should keep them busy into the spring. After that, however, the outlook is uncertain. October is typically the time when prospective buyers begin looking for homes to be completed the next summer. However, while weekend traffic has picked up in New Jersey, demand thus far has been sluggish in much of New York. Higher mortgage rates were cited as a factor. In addition, some New York builders have postponed seeking contracts for summer delivery because of uncertainty about rising costs of materials and labor availability. The brisk pace of nonresidential real estate activity was maintained in recent weeks. A high volume of leasing transactions continued in New Jersey, southern Connecticut and various New York City suburban areas. Our contacts also noted a definite upswing in midtown Manhattan as earlier negotiations for space are now culminating in actual commitments. State governments in the District plan a substantial upgrading of roads, bridges and public transportation. The legislatures of New Jersey and Connecticut have already increased bonding authority for improving transportation infrastructure. New Yorkers will vote in early November on a referendum for a $1.25 billion debt issue, but even if that fails, the pace of infrastructure renovation will increase in New York. Business Activity Business activity continued to expand in the manufacturing sector, but at a generally moderate pace. The upturn at automotive manufacturers and suppliers has been maintained, but a producer of truck engines reported some temporary difficulty obtaining parts. Manufacturers of products such as electrical equipment and optical supplies have already begun a modest hiring of new employees. Other firms anticipate additional hiring when plant expansions which are currently underway are completed. Several high technology firms announced plans to expand and ground was recently broken on Long Island for a high-tech industrial park. Many manufacturers continued a cautious inventory policy, but for the first time in several months some firms expressed a willingness to begin inventory accumulation. A more positive attitude about the continuation of the recovery was noted throughout most of the District. Unemployment rates have recently fallen throughout the region, but remain above year-ago levels in some areas. Financial Developments Second District banks report a pickup in business lending in recent weeks. Some banks have become more aggressive in seeking new customers. In addition, demand has also been increasing as business financing needs begin to rise and interest rates offered on loans remain relatively flat Business lending appears to be comparatively stronger outside the immediate New York City area. Mortgage lending seems to be flat, but bank offering particularly competitive rates have been able to raise their market shares. The deregulation of most consumer time deposits on October 1 resulted in many banks and thrifts institutions in New York City offering very attractive rates, particularly on six-month certificates where rates were offered as high as 11 percent.