Overview Modest growth still characterizes the Tenth District economy. Retail sales continue to increase moderately, although new car sales have been mixed. Both retailers and manufacturers are attempting to trim inventories. Oil and gas drilling stabilized in May and remains stronger than a year earlier. Residential construction activity has generally been flat over recent months, as new home sales remain slow. Mortgage demand at thrift institutions remains weak, while loan demand at commercial banks is generally steady to up moderately from a month ago. Plentiful spring rains have apparently ended the region's two-year drought. The winter wheat harvest now getting under way is expected to produce above-average yields. Retail Sales Most district retailers report moderate increases in sales over the past year and over the past three months. Sales are expected to improve slightly in the months ahead. Prices have changed in line with cost increases and are expected to edge up further in coming months. Most respondents are attempting to trim inventories. New auto sales have slowed in some district states but have improved slightly in others. Some dealers report tightening credit terms for potential buyers. Most dealers continue to trim inventories because they expect only modest sales in coming months. Manufacturing Most purchasing agents report relatively stable prices for inputs over the past three months. Prices are expected to remain steady or increase slightly during the next three months. Agents report no problems in obtaining materials or workers and expect none for the remainder of the year. Most firms are trimming inventory levels by continuing to operate plants below capacity. Energy Oil prices remain about $4 below their level at the beginning of the year. Despite setter oil prices, exploration and development activity in the district remained stable in May and improved compared with one year earlier. The district rig count increased slightly from 263 in April to 266 in May, up 14 percent from May 1989. Housing Activity and Finance District housing activity is slightly down from a year ago and has generally been flat over recent months. New home sales are slow, and prices remain generally stable. Lumber prices are up because of reduced cutting in the Northwest in recent months, but builders expect lumber prices to stabilize. For the rest of the year, housing starts and new home sales are expected to be similar to last year. Most district savings and loans report deposit outflows over both the last month and the last year. Deposits are expected to stabilize soon. Demand for mortgage funds remains weak, and most respondents expect little improvement in upcoming months. Mortgage rates have been constant or up slightly at most institutions. There was no consensus on the future direction of mortgage rates, some respondents expect rates to rise while others expect rates to fall. Banking Most commercial bank respondents report that loan demand is up moderately over the last month. Increased demand is reported in all categories of loans: commercial and industrial, consumer, residential real estate, commercial real estate, and agricultural. None of the respondents report a change in their prime rate, and none expect a change in the near term. Nor do most report a change in consumer lending rates, although a few report lower rates. Virtually none of the respondents expect a change in consumer rates in the near term. Changes in loan-deposit ratios and in deposit activity were mixed at district banks. IRA and Keogh accounts were generally up, while MMDAs were generally down. Agriculture Large amounts of spring rain across much of the district marked the end of the drought that gripped large parts of the region during the past two years. The plentiful rainfall has improved pasture conditions and generally boosted prospects for the winter wheat crop, but has delayed planting of spring crops in some areas. Planting is about seven to ten days behind normal in Oklahoma and three to four weeks behind normal in Missouri. Warmer weather will be needed to promote crop development. The district's winter wheat crop is generally in good condition, although continued wet weather has contributed to disease problems in some areas and could delay the wheat harvest. The wheat harvest has begun in Oklahoma end will progress north across the district through mid-July. Expected yields range from average to well above average, with record yields likely in much of Kansas. Improved pasture conditions, due to the plentiful rains, ensure an adequate feed supply for cattle herds. Although plentiful forage supplies encourage herd expansion, feeder cattle prices remain exceptionally strong. As a result, herd expansion is occurring at a slow pace.