Summary Contacts generally report slow economic growth throughout the District, with few expecting any substantial decline in activity in the near future. Manufacturing activity is flat. Many of the District's largest commercial banks have tightened credit standards for loans to small and mid-sized businesses. Excessive rainfall has damaged crops and delayed planting. Consumer Spending Non-auto retail sales growth is described as weak-to-moderate by contacts in most parts of the District. Survey responses indicate that the number of retailers with larger-than-desired inventories, though still a minority, rose substantially from a year earlier. Most District contacts describe car sales as flat or below year- earlier levels, despite the continued availability of sales incentives. Moderate growth of truck and used car sales has been reported for some areas. Labor Markets and General Business Activity District manufacturing employment has been flat in recent months; at the same time, nonmanufacturing employment has grown at a moderate pace, with the most growth occurring in wholesale and retail trades, government and services. Medical services, in particular, have shown moderate-to-strong job growth in most metropolitan areas. Only slight increases in construction employment have been reported, with slight declines occurring in the financial and the transportation, communication and utilities sectors. Regional unemployment rates have fallen slightly in recent months, in part because workers were recalled to factories producing home appliances and autos. A recent survey indicated that approximately one in five small businesses were having difficulty filling some job openings, about the same proportion as a year ago. Military restructuring and defense spending cutbacks are affecting some parts of the District. One contact reports that the pending reduction of a military base in Kentucky has caused retail sales to decline locally and the inventory of unsold homes. to rise. A military installation that develops and tests equipment will eliminate approximately 260 jobs in St. Louis. A cut in military orders caused a sharp decline in production at a shoe factory in southern Illinois. Manufacturing Overall, manufacturing activity has been stable, with plant shutdowns and layoffs roughly equaling expansions and new operations. Makers of building materials are benefiting from the improvement in the Texas economy. One tire factory laid off many of its workers as orders diminished; in Arkansas, on the other hand, three plants that will produce steal cord for tires are under construction. Overall, growth in the construction of new plants producing motor vehicle parts is slowing, but some existing suppliers are expanding. Much of the District's manufacturing growth is in the production of nondurables. Some paper and food processing operations, for example, are expanding. New or expanding poultry processing factories were reported in Arkansas, Mississippi and Kentucky. Banking and Credit Senior loan officers at the District's five largest banks report non-merger-related commercial and industrial (C and I) lending fell from 1988 to 1989, but that no further slowing occurred in the first four months of 1990. Most of these officers indicated credit standards had tightened somewhat for small and medium-sized businesses; a less favorable economic outlook, industry-specific factors and deteriorating loan portfolios were mentioned as reasons for the tightening. Credit terms for C and I loans to medium-sized firms (annual sales of $50 to $250 million) have tightened more than for smaller businesses. Both small and medium-sized firms are facing tighter loan covenants and collateralization requirements for C and I loans, with medium-sized firms also encountering lower maximum credit lines and increased loan rates over base rates. The officers also confirmed that credit standards for commercial real estate projects, especially office buildings and industrial structures, had tightened since late 1989. Agriculture Excessive rainfall over the District has delayed crop planting, damaged crops and caused flooding. Crop planting has been delayed the longest in northern portions of the District, where corn and soybean plantings are three-to-five weeks behind normal. Diseases stimulated by the cool, wet weather and insects have damaged the wheat and cotton crops. One-quarter to one-half of these crops are rated in poor-to-very-poor condition in several District states. District logging activity also has been limited by the wet weather. Areas adjacent to rivers sustained crop end livestock losses due to flooding throughout the District, with Arkansas being hit the hardest, Disaster assistance has been approved for almost half of Arkansas' counties. The combination of poor weather conditions and disease and insect problems indicate that 1990 District crop yields may fall below normal in some areas.