Overview District business and financial conditions were generally unchanged in May. Manufacturing activity softened somewhat, but manufacturers remained optimistic about prospects for the national economy and their own businesses. Retail sales changed little from April levels, and tourism was mixed. On balance, exports rose at District seaports while imports were unchanged. Housing starts fell, but home sales remained stable. Home mortgage and home equity lending increased at District financial institutions, but the demand for commercial and industrial loans declined slightly. In the farm sector, planting was ahead of schedule and the harvest of early grains had begun. Manufacturing Our regular mail survey showed that District manufacturing activity apparently slowed somewhat in May from April. Although a majority of respondents reported no change in shipments, inventories, employment, new orders and unfilled orders, more respondents indicated declines than increases, a reversal of the results of our previous survey. Three-fourths of those surveyed reported no change in new export orders, and most others indicated increases. Manufacturers remained optimistic that expansion in the national economy would continue. More than 80 percent expect their own business activity to stay the same or improve along with the U.S. economy in the coming months. Consumer Spending Responses to our regular mail survey of District retailers indicated that non-auto retail sales remained unchanged in recent weeks. There was some additional inventory accumulation and a small decline in shoppers, however. A telephone survey of resort hotels in the District suggested that tourist activity has been mixed so far this spring. Half of the hotels reported increases over last year in their business through May and in their bookings for the summer. The other half, located mainly in Maryland and South Carolina, reported declines in tourism this year compared to last year. Housing A survey of District mortgage lenders, realtors and home builders suggested that housing activity remained mixed in May. Lenders reported that the demand for mortgage loans in May and early June increased from the April level. They attributed the additional activity to lower mortgage rates. Realtors indicated that home sales in all price ranges during May remained at April levels. Housing sales in the District, although sluggish so far this year, have been above the pace of 1989 and realtors are optimistic that sales activity will pick up In the months ahead. Many potential home buyers, they said, are either waiting for their current homes to sell or for mortgage rates to decline further. Most home builders contacted said they started fewer homes in May than in April. The new starts were targeted largely for the middle and upper price tiers of the market. May sales of new homes were depressed, the builders noted, and there is now a large inventory of unsold homes. Most builders complained about their difficulties in obtaining credit. Port Activity Exports rose in May from April levels at the seaports in Baltimore and Charleston and stayed about the same at Hampton Roads. Imports were higher at Hampton Roads, about the same at Charleston, and lower at Baltimore. Compared to a year ago, port activity was mixed, with increases in both exports and imports at Hampton Roads, no changes at Charleston, and decreases at Baltimore. The Baltimore port representative looks for exports to increase faster than imports over the next six months, while representatives from the other two ports expect export and import volumes to increase at the same rate. Finance Reports from District financial institutions indicated that commercial and industrial loan demand decreased slightly in May from April. Respondents attributed the decline to borrower uneasiness about economic growth, tax increases and interest rate changes. Some lenders felt that potential borrowers may have perceived credit to be unavailable, and several lenders said they were reluctant to make loans because of stricter regulatory guidelines and the depressed commercial real estate market. Consumer demand for home equity loans remained strong in May. Over 90 percent of the bankers surveyed reported that the demand for home equity loans either remained at or increased from the April level. Lenders attributed the increase to marketing, seasonal factors and greater consumer awareness of the tax advantages associated with the loans. Over 85 percent of the lenders reported no recent change in the interest rates they charge on home equity and other consumer loans. Agriculture Farmers reported that soil moisture in late May and early June was adequate to surplus in all District states except South Carolina. Recent rains in South Carolina, however, relieved the dry crop and pasture conditions in that state. In North Carolina, heavy rains caused scattered flooding and damaged crops in some areas. Our contacts indicated, however, that spring planting progressed faster than normal despite the spring rains. In early June, corn and peanut planting in the District was nearly complete and soybean planting was well underway. The harvest of small grains has begun around the District. Most small grain crops, oats, wheat, rice and barley, were reported to be in good condition and yields should be normal or above.