Summary Fourth District respondents are a little more optimistic about short-term prospects for manufacturing than they were several weeks ago. Higher motor vehicle output should add to overall output this quarter. Capital spending plans from the sample of District manufacturers call for larger spending increases than indicated in the latest Commerce Department survey, and export growth is expected to continue at least through the balance of this year. Respondents, however, appear more cautious about the short-term outlook for consumer spending. Lenders and borrowers acknowledge tightening in credit availability and lending standards in real estate, but also note that other declines in lending are due to easing in demand for single-family houses and for consumer credit. Employment and Output The 5.9 percent unemployment rate in Ohio in April and May has been relatively unchanged since last fall, despite monthly fluctuations. Employment in manufacturing has held steady, and services employment has continued to grow, albeit slowly. Respondents report that manufacturing output rose in May and expect that second quarter growth in output, particularly in autos, will be stronger than in the first quarter. Higher auto output should add between 0.5 and 1.0 percentage point to the real GNP growth rate this quarter. Capital Spending District manufacturers are more optimistic about capital spending for 1990 than reported in the latest Commerce Department survey. Respondents plan larger percentage increases in nominal outlays this year than last, and all but one report that they plan to increase their capital spending this year by a larger percentage than the planned 3.4 percent indicated in the latest Commerce survey. A few manufacturers plan to add capacity for products that were in short supply during the peak 1987-88 period. Others mentioned the need for product quality improvement and for further modernization of facilities. Some also remarked that 1990 may be the peak year in their multiyear capital spending programs. Most respondents mentioned that they plan to finance most of their 1990 capital spending from internally generated funds. They expect that profits from production will revive this quarter. The run-up in interest rates earlier this year was not judged to be a deterrent to spending plans for 1990 because real rates of interest did not change much. Exports Multinational firms as well as smaller businesses headquartered in this District report that overseas markets remain generally strong, although some expect a slowdown in U.S. export growth later this year. Capital goods producers were optimistic about export prospects again this year. Exchange rate changes apparently have not had much effect on exports so far in 1990. A capital goods producer commented that costs of parts and sub-assemblies have risen in recent months, but that changes in exchange rates of even 10 percent to 15 percent are "swamped" by rapid improvement in technology. An auto parts producer reports that effects of dollar appreciation relative to the yen may be less than expected because Japanese auto producers are attempting to use American-produced products where possible to meet domestic-content goals for new cars. Several export-sensitive firms are concerned that anti-inflation policies in Brazil will either reduce exports to that country or diminish earnings from their plants located there. Consumer Spending Major retailers report disappointing May and early June sales volumes, especially for apparel, which they attribute to unseasonable weather, slower income gains, and more competition from discount stores. Home furnishing sales also weakened. Another retailer reports good sales over the past several weeks, however, apparently in response to an upgrading of its merchandise. Two large retailers contacted report that inventories are high relative to their objective. They also expect soft sales, at least through the summer months. Financial Markets Most respondents acknowledge that credit standards have tightened, but report that ample funds are available except for real estate and for highly leveraged transactions. Some large commercial banks apparently are not presently interested in development and construction loans, while some others are still making those loans, but with terms that could include a few percentage points above prime, extensive documentation, and personal guarantees. The problem in real estate appears to be in multifamily housing and in commercial buildings, where developers and builders complain that it is "hard to find lenders." Lenders, for their part, emphasize prudence in their exposure to this sector of the economy. Small builders, especially of single-family units, report funds are still ample, although FIRREA legislation has forced a search for credit away from traditional lenders, generally thrifts. According to one report, the major complaint among single-family builders is a sluggish demand for houses rather than unavailability of credit. At present, there is little to indicate that credit conditions have tightened in other parts of the regional economy. Bankers report that recent slowing in growth of consumer credit is due to softening demand rather than to tightened supply of credit. A few lenders noted that consumer spending could be dampened if lines of credit based on equity in homes are reduced.