Overview Consistent with reports received since March, our business contacts continue to indicate generally slow growth throughout the Southeast. Retailers around the District convey a mixed picture but generally note that sales growth is slower than last year with apparel doing well and durable goods picking up but still off from last year's pace. Reports from auto dealers continue to show sales at or below last year's levels. Manufacturers, except for textile, auto and auto-related producers, are seeing some strengthening of sales, which is allowing planned capital expenditures to progress. Because of generally overbuilt markets, contacts in the construction sector continue to indicate weakness and see no quick relief. Financial institutions again report weak loan growth. Little wage or price pressure is being reported in the District, although reports of shortages of skilled workers are increasing. Retail Sales Retail activity in the District is generally reported to be growing but at a rate somewhat slower than last year. Apparel continues to be mentioned as the backbone of sales growth; several merchants indicated some pickup in durable sales. Department store contacts report sales growth on a par with or slightly above expectations earlier this year. Appliance and other consumer durable sales have reportedly declined recently in line with the slowdown in residential real estate sales in certain areas. However, contacts report that furniture sales in the Southeast have picked up in recent weeks and are now growing a percentage point or two faster than last year's levels. Reports from do-it-yourself specialty stores indicate strong growth in building materials and related sales. Reports from auto dealers indicate that sales weakened further recently and one contact speculated that rumors of increased manufacturers' incentives on the forthcoming 1991 models are hurting current sales. A majority of the dealers, however, expect some pickup in activity in coming months, especially if those dealer and/or consumer incentives are put in place by manufacturers. Manufacturing Manufacturers in the District point to a mixed picture, but those not associated with textile or auto and auto-related production generally indicate that activity levels are picking up. The slowdown in new residential construction, which reduces demand for new carpets and drapery, and greater competition from foreign apparel producers are reportedly taking their toll on southeastern textile and apparel producers. Job losses continue to be reported in these industries although contacts generally believe activity will pickup in the third quarter. The weakness in auto manufacturing is reportedly affecting suppliers; tire and glass producers are the most recent to feel the strain. One glass producer has been adversely affected by both the slowdown in auto production and construction, and is trying to offset the impact by lowering prices and emphasizing export markets. Manufacturers of heating and air conditioning equipment report that consumer demand has strengthened over first quarter levels, especially for replacement equipment. Producers of industrial pumps and metering equipment report record sales caused mostly by increased export demand. Pulp and paper producers also report benefiting from strong export demand. Producers of marine equipment are reporting a noticeable improvement in business activity and attribute this to the improvement in the oil and gas industry. These producers indicate that capital spending to expand capacity is now being actively considered. Despite current weakness in demand, certain manufacturers of major household appliances and fixtures report that they are building new manufacturing facilities in the Southeast. Real Estate and Construction Construction contacts continue to indicate weakness in residential and commercial construction. They attribute much of the weakness to overbuilt markets but reports of more stringent lending conditions imposed by financial institutions continue. Public infrastructure and industrial building are the only sectors where strength is reported. Reports from Florida indicate that the new limits on loans to a single borrower imposed on savings and loans and a new state law requiring concurrent additions to public infrastructure in conjunction with new developments are also adversely affecting construction in that state, and our contacts around the District indicate no relief to this construction slowdown is in sight. Financial Services Several bankers noted a continuation of weakness in consumer loan demand. These bankers report business loan growth is also slow. However, the majority of our bank contacts indicated no change in credit policies and none of our business contacts indicated problems obtaining credit. Businesses that are doing well report that financial institutions are encouraging them to borrow. One of our contacts also indicates that his institution has tightened its lending standards, requiring stricter documentation and more collateral, in the last few months, especially for real estate loans and to a lesser degree for small business lending. Wages and Prices Reports from around the District reveal little change in wage or price pressures. A few of our contacts noted that certain types of skilled labor are in short supply, but these tight markets are localized and have not resulted in increased wage pressures. With the resurgence of the energy sector, contacts noted that qualified welders and pipe fitters are in especially short supply. No new price pressures were mentioned by our contacts.