Overview The District economy continued to grow sluggishly during late July and the first three weeks of August. Hot, dry weather boosted tourism but dampened shopper traffic at retail outlets, pushed up manufacturers' costs, and devastated crops. Credit demand strengthened slightly as did residential and commercial real estate activity. At District ports, exports fell but imports rose. Consumer Spending Our regular mall survey indicated that retail activity was mixed in late July and early August. Respondents reported that sales rose slightly, even though big-ticket items decreased somewhat. Wages increased, as did wholesale and retail prices, while employment and inventories were lower. Capital expenditures were reported to be flat. Survey respondents were optimistic about their prospects for the next six months. They expected increases in all indicators except sales of big-ticket items, which they believed would be unchanged. Manufacturing Our survey of manufacturers indicated that District activity continued to hold steady in late July and early August. Respondents indicated little change in most indicators, although raw materials prices rose and new orders fell slightly. Manufacturers cited government regulations and weak product demand as their most important problems, and they noted that the summer's hot weather had pushed up their production costs somewhat. Respondents were optimistic about their prospects for the next six months. They anticipated increases in most indicators, but expected inventories and the number of employees to decline. They anticipated no change in backlogs and employee hours. Tourism Hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity for July and the first three weeks of August was higher than in June and a year ago. Respondents attributed the increases to unseasonably good weather. All respondents noted that their summer bookings increased when compared to a year ago, and most expected tourist activity to continue to improve during the next six months. Ports Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that exports were lower and imports were higher in July than in June and a year ago. Hampton Roads expected exports to increase during the next six months, while Baltimore and Charleston expected export volume to be unchanged. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that credit conditions improved slightly over the last five weeks. Respondents stated that commercial loan demand was flat while consumer loan demand strengthened somewhat. Interest rates were steady on commercial loans and somewhat higher on consumer loans. Residential mortgage demand increased during the past five weeks. Refinancing activity increased significantly, while mortgage originations were flat. Residential mortgage lending rates were moderately lower. Residential Real Estate Real estate analysts and homebuilders surveyed by telephone reported that residential activity increased throughout the District during the past six weeks. Residential sales and building permits rose on a seasonally adjusted basis, as did home prices, particularly in the Carolinas. Most respondents indicated that higher prices reflected both higher building materials costs and stronger demand. Some also attributed increased prices to a lessened availability of residential lots and to increased regulatory and labor costs. Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate activity was mixed during the past six weeks; it improved in Virginia and the Carolinas, but remained sluggish elsewhere. Office building and retail vacancy rates continued to edge down, and no speculative construction was reported to be underway. However, some analysts anticipated speculative office building activity in some areas as early as next year. Commercial rental rates remained steady throughout the District except in Raleigh, where they were higher. State Tax Revenues State tax analysts reported that revenue growth implied real economic growth of 2 to 3 percent in most District states. South Carolina's economy appeared to be growing at a slower rate, partly because of military cutbacks. In the District of Columbia, real revenues continued to shrink. Agriculture Agricultural analysts reported that scattered rain across much of the District in August brought relief to some crops but arrived too late for others. Drought damage to corn, sorghum, and tobacco reduced their expected yields substantially. The soybean and hay crops benefited from the August precipitation but remained in poor condition. As of late August, estimates of drought-related damage in the District approached $600 million.