Overview Reports from Sixth District contacts indicate that economic activity in the Southeast grew somewhat more slowly in July and August than during the first half of the year. After recording relatively strong growth in the first two quarters, retail sales gains tapered off early in the third quarter and have maintained this slower pace of growth since. Reports from manufacturers also varied over the same period. Firms in the apparel, packaging, and aerospace industries reported decelerations in new orders and current production, while manufacturers of home furnishings, appliances, and building materials reported steady to slight improvements in overall activity. Demand for housing-related items continues to be supported by single-family home sales and construction, which have remained healthy in most of the Southeast. Multifamily and commercial construction activity, however, has continued to be sluggish. According to bankers, consumer loan demand increased slightly during the last two months, while commercial lending was generally flat over the same period. Prices generally were said to be stable; some firms reported modest wage increases. Consumer Spending Retailers reported that consumer spending growth slowed unseasonably in July and August. Sales of apparel and other consumer nondurables were said to be particularly sluggish. Although sales of furniture, appliances, and automobiles have continued to improve on a year- over-year basis, recent gains have been more muted than earlier in the year. While most retailers reported that they continue to expect sales during the upcoming holiday shopping season to equal or surpass year-ago levels, they said that the recent softening in consumer demand has made them more cautious in placing orders. Tourism remains strong in the Southeast. Hotel occupancy rates and convention attendance are above last year's levels, and most industry contacts expect further improvement through the end of the year. Manufacturing Reports on factory activity in the Southeast were mixed in July and August. Textile and apparel industry contacts reported that sluggish retail sales had led to reduced orders overall, with the exception of denim. Producers of packaging materials reported a fall in new orders that they attributed to the recent weakness in consumer spending. Chemical producers expressed concern that the floods in the Midwest could later contribute to reduced demand for agricultural chemicals, while cutbacks in the space station program are expected to add to the job losses already experienced in the aerospace industry. On the other hand, industries that are closely linked to regional and national housing markets have continued to report increases in overall business activity. Producers of lumber, carpets, appliances, and furniture continued to experience gains in production and shipments. However, even in these industries the expansion in the volume of new orders has declined frown the more rapid pace recorded earlier in the year. Construction Realtors again reported strong single-family home sales through the end of August. Contacts noted that after slowing briefly at the beginning of the summer, home sales have picked up again. Year-to- date sales continue to outpace last year's relatively strong levels. New mid-priced homes were said to be selling particularly well, and agents noted that inventories of both new and existing homes for sale were tight in many market areas. Home builders reported that increases in demand had kept them extremely busy through August, and that they saw signs of a shortage of subcontractors available to work on new projects. Multifamily and commercial construction activity remained sluggish across the District, though several contacts noted improvement in vacancy and rental rates in their market areas. In particular, large blocks of space are becoming scarce in some of the more desirable locations. However, no new speculative building projects were announced. Financial Services Bankers from across the Southeast reported that loan demand was flat or up modestly in August. Loans for automobile purchases have been the source of most of the growth in new consumer loans. Residential mortgage lending also has continued to increase, but bankers said that about three-quarters of this activity was due to refinancings. Business lending has been flat and dominated by debt refinancing. Wages and Prices Factory contacts reported that prices for both raw materials and finished goods have been stable in the last two months. However, home builders noted that lumber prices were beginning to rise again in anticipation of increased demand from the rebuilding in the Midwestern flood areas. In regard to wages, several firms said that they were giving their employees only cost-of-living wage increases.