Overview Contacts around the Sixth District reported that economic conditions have continued to improve at a slow but steady pace since mid-April. Retailers noted a moderate gain in sales of both consumer durables and non-durable goods. Auto dealers saw an improvement in showroom traffic and sales. Manufacturers observed increased activity in an expanding range of industries. Developers noted steady single-family home building activity, though commercial construction has not improved. Bankers reported modest gains in business loan demand and somewhat greater improvement in consumer loan activity. In general, wages and prices have remained flat. Consumer Spending Most retailers in the District reported moderate sales increases through early June. Contacts said that sales were again strongest for nondurable items such as apparel, but several noted gains in furniture and appliance purchases. Auto dealers also reported increased showroom traffic and sales. Still, retailers have remained cautious in placing new orders and have maintained lean inventory levels. Contacts do not anticipate significant inventory rebuilding in the near future. Convention- and tourism-related activity has also shown improvement. In commenting on the recent airfare price war, agents reported that price reductions had boosted individual travel, but they had little impact on family vacations and business travel. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the District continues to improve. Increases in new orders and production were noted in a broad range of industries, with firms linked to residential housing activity recording the biggest gains. Carpet and home appliance producers saw strength in new orders. Several furniture and cabinet manufacturers stated that they have boosted hours worked to meet increased demand for their products. Lumber and wood producers have added to employment rolls in response to expanding residential construction activity. Shipments have continued to pickup for a producer of men's wear. New orders have increased steadily for a firm producing sports apparel. One large textile firm producing for institutional customers reported that it was building inventories in anticipation of future increases in demand. However, several textile and apparel manufacturers noted that retailers continue to keep inventory levels low. Business activity generally remains weak for firms in the energy sector. However, some suppliers of equipment and services to the oil and gas industry believe that this long-troubled market may be stabilizing with the recent firming of natural gas prices. Defense and aerospace industry contacts also reported a slowdown in industry activity as orders have been canceled and delivery times pushed back because of defense cutbacks. These cutbacks spread acquisitions over a longer period of time. Construction Most realtors reported steady home sales in May and early June, but activity has slowed from the rapid pace recorded earlier this year. Sales remain strongest in the low-to-middle price ranges. Resale inventories remain adequate as more people have put their homes up for sale in response to improved marks conditions. As a result, realtors have not seen much change in the price of existing homes. Contacts report that new home inventory levels are relatively low. Consistent with this observation, most builders stated that residential home building activity has continued to improve. Multifamily construction, however, is still weak despise reports that occupancy rates are relatively high in some areas. Commercial construction activity remains at a minimum. Although some commercial realtors have seen an improvement in leasing activity and a firming in rental rates, contacts in several cities say that markets remain over supplied. Excess office space reportedly has kept rental rates at levels too low to justify new building. Financial Services Loan demand in the region increased slightly in May from April levels. Most bankers observed a small increase in business loan activity and a somewhat larger increase in consumer loan demand. The surge in residential mortgage refinancings that occurred earlier in the year, however, has almost worked its way through the system. Most contacts reported improved quality in loan applications of all kinds. Wages and Prices Most contacts report that input prices and wages remain stable. Firms that have expanded their employment rolls in the last month report that ample supplies of labor have allowed them to hire new workers at existing wage levels.