Summary Manufacturing activity remains mixed, with some firms reporting gains and others reporting declines in both sales and employment. Nonmanufacturing employment continues to grow. Consumer spending appears to be on a steadily increasing trend. Single-family home construction still is up sharply from year-ago levels. Loan demand appears to have weakened over the past two months. Dry soil has delayed planting and adversely affected crop conditions in many parts of the District. Manufacturing Expectations for continued manufacturing growth, based on reports of increased sales and employment by many District firms, were moderated by reports of layoffs and plant closures at other firms. In one indication of growth, a survey of Arkansas paper producers reveals year-to-date sales increases of 8 percent to 20 percent. A food producer's expansion in Tennessee will add 600 jobs to the local economy. A district manufacturer of heating and cooling systems reports significantly increased orders this quarter for cooling equipment and expects orders for heating equipment next quarter to be as strong. A manufacturer of industrial hydraulic components indicates that domestic and foreign orders are quite vigorous and that the firm has a substantial backlog. Offsetting these gains, a Missouri-based shoe manufacturer recently announced its third round of plant closures, which will eliminate more than 1,400 jobs by September. A maker of hospital thermometers will close its Missouri and Illinois plants and move production to Mexico over the coming six to 18 months, affecting about 135 jobs. A St. Louis defense contractor laid off 134 workers on one project, even though it continues to hire new employees for a different project. Nonmanufacturing Employment growth in District nonmanufacturing firms continues to strengthen. As part of their Little Rock consolidations, an information services firm and a telecommunications firm together will hire about 300 local employees. By August, a dockside casino will open in northern Mississippi, employing more than 400. On a broader note, a national temporary employment service reports that 37 percent of the surveyed Memphis firms, 28 percent of the surveyed St. Louis firms and 13 percent of the surveyed Little Rock firms will increase employment during the third quarter. Consumer Spending Non-auto sales are moderately higher than one year ago. Although the late Easter season is cited for the strong sales, preliminary indications point toward continued strength in May. After a slow start in the first quarter of 1992, increased sales in the last two months appear to have started a trend that many retailers expect to continue through the end of the year. Quarterly auto sales show no change from one year ago, although a few dealers note increases over the last few weeks. Construction and Real Estate Single-family home construction continues to rebound strongly. Little Rock, Louisville and St. Louis builders all report double- digit increases in April housing permits from one year ago; Memphis builders were an exception, reporting an increase of only 1 percent. Commercial construction activity, except for public works projects, remains stagnant. Observers note, however, that office occupancy rates in both St. Louis and Little Rock have edged up slightly since the end of 1991. Banking and Finance Loan demand, as indicated by changes in loans outstanding at District banks, appears to have weakened somewhat since the last report. Total loans outstanding at large District banks rose just 0.1 percent in April and May, after a 0.8 percent increase from mid- February to mid-April. Loans on the books of a sample of small and mid-sized District banks rose 0.8 percent, after a 1.2 percent increase in the previous period. At both sets of banks, the slowdown appears to be concentrated in the consumer and real estate loan portfolios. Agriculture and Natural Resources Inadequate rainfall has caused some Illinois, Kentucky and Missouri farmers to delay soybean planting and has produced weed and insect problems in some Arkansas cotton and rice fields. One-third of Mississippi's cotton crop is in poor condition. Unseasonably cool weather in late May hampered the growth of corn and soybeans in the northern parts of the District. Despite these concerns, most other District crops are in fair condition. Southern pine lumber mills report that exports, production and orders all are up significantly from last year. Nonetheless, weather conditions in parts of the Midwest and New England have recently reduced lumber demand slightly. Lumber prices remain substantially above year-ago levels.