Reports from Third District business contacts in early June suggested that business conditions were improving slowly. Manufacturing activity continued to move up, on balance, and hiring at Third District industrial plants appeared to be on the increase. Retailers generally reported steady or slightly higher sales for May compared to the prior month and year. Bankers described loan volume as steady, with slight gains in mortgage and auto loans being offset by continuing declines in commercial and industrial lending. Looking ahead, Third District business contacts forecast slow growth. Manufacturers are relatively optimistic. They predict a continuing increase in activity and they plan to step up hiring and capital spending in the second half of the year. Retailers anticipate improvement in the fourth quarter, but not strong gains. Bankers expect consumer lending to move up slowly but they believe business loan demand will remain soft. Manufacturing Reports from Third district manufacturers in late May and early June indicated that, on balance, industrial activity continued on an uptrend. One-third of the firms contacted said they were stepping up shipments while one-half said their shipments had been running at a steady pace. Reports on new orders paralleled the shipments situation. Durable goods producers indicated somewhat more positive conditions than did nondurables producers, although chemical companies generally reported gains in business. The manufacturing employment picture appeared to be brightening; although two-thirds of the firms contacted for this report were maintaining steady payrolls, one-fourth were adding workers. Looking ahead, almost two-thirds of the manufacturers contacted said they expect further gains in the second half of the year while nearly one-third said they anticipate just steady business. Overall, managers at Third District plants foresee increases in orders and shipments during the next six months. The positive outlook is apparently leading manufacturers in the region to step up hiring and capital spending plans; nearly four-out-of-ten said they will add workers and increase outlays for plant and equipment in the second half of the year. Retail Third District retailers generally indicated that sales in May were even with, or slightly up compared to both April sales and sales in May of last year. Store officials said the recent sales pace had been in line with their expectations. There were some reports that big ticket items were not selling as well as other goods. Nearly all the merchants contacted for this report characterized their selling efforts as highly promotional, involving extensive discounting from list prices. Looking ahead, most Third District retailers expect sales during the summer to be seasonally slow. They are hoping that sales will improve in the fourth quarter of this year, but they do not anticipate a strong upturn because they expect only a very gradual increase in consumer confidence. Finance Third District bankers contacted in early June described overall loan volume outstanding as virtually flat. Gains in mortgage and consumer lending were being offset by continuing declines in commercial and industrial loans. Bankers said they were booking new business loans but the amounts were less than the amounts being paid off by existing borrowers. Lending to middle-size and small businesses was described as particularly soft by several bankers who said loan demand in these markets was weak. As to consumer lending, several bankers said credit card balances were being paid down but there had been an upturn in auto loans, pushing total personal loan volume up slightly in recent weeks. Most of the bank lending officers contacted for this report expect loan demand from businesses to remain soft. They believe firms are still focusing on cutting costs rather increasing sales to boost profitability. They also said consumer lending is likely to grow only slowly, as they foresee slow economic growth and a sluggish advance in consumer confidence.