Overview The Tenth District economy continues to grow slowly, led by consumer spending and residential construction. Retail sales, including new car purchases, continue to improve, and single-family home building remains strong. Demand for most types of commercial bank loans rose last month. But district energy activity remains depressed, and lower livestock prices are restricting improvement in the farm sector. Retail prices have been rising only slowly while prices for manufacturers' inputs are generally stable. Retail Sales Retail sales improved slightly over the past month, and most retailers expect this trend to continue for the rest of the year. Retail prices in the district have been rising slowly. Over the rest of the year, retailers expect only modest price increases because value-oriented consumers will resist any large price gains. Most retailers expect to expand their inventories later this year due to rising sales. Automobile sales over the last month improved in most parts of the district. Dealers and buyers are generally able to obtain financing. Most dealers are satisfied with their current inventory levels and are optimistic about sales prospects for the summer. Manufacturing Most purchasing agents report that input prices were stable over the last month but are higher than a year ago. Input prices over the next month are also expected to be steady. Most firms report no problems with availability or lead times for their materials inputs, nor do they report production bottlenecks or shortages of skilled labor. Half of the respondents are satisfied with their inventory levels, while the other half find their stocks somewhat heavy. Energy Energy activity in the district remains depressed despite some recent increases in oil and natural gas prices. The average number of operating drilling rigs in district states rose slightly to 192 in May from 188 in April. Nonetheless, the May rig count was about 15 percent below its year-ago level and still near the low levels reached during the energy bust in 1986. Housing Housing starts in the district are substantially higher than a year ago and generally up from a month ago. The improvement is concentrated in the single-family sector, and most builders expect further gains in single-family housing starts over the rest of the year. New home sales are also up, and inventories are low. The prices of new homes are higher than a year ago but unchanged over the last month. The prices of many building materials, especially lumber, continue to rise. Mortgage demand is strong, even though mortgage refinancing has slowed somewhat. Mortgage demand is also likely to remain strong over the rest of the year, with mortgage rates expected to fluctuate in a narrow range. Banking Total loan demand rose at most reporting banks last month, pushing loan-deposit ratios higher than last month and a year ago. Bankers report generally higher demand for commercial and industrial loans, consumer loans, home mortgages, and agricultural loans. Demand for construction loans and commercial real estate loans at most banks was unchanged. Changes in total deposits were mixed last month, with slightly more banks reporting decreases than increases. Demand deposits rose at most banks. Changes in MMDAs were mixed, but NOW accounts, IRA and Keogh accounts, large CDs, and small time deposits were all constant to down. Almost all respondents left their prime rates unchanged last month, while about half reduced their consumer lending rates. Nearly all banks expect these rates to stay unchanged in the near future. Lending standards were unchanged. Agriculture Crop conditions vary widely across the district. In parts of Colorado, Kansas, and Nebraska, a recent cold snap may have reduced winter wheat yields by nearly a third while slowing development of the recently planted corn crop. In Oklahoma, however, the winter wheat crop is in good condition and normal yields are expected. But wet weather in the state has temporarily delayed the start of the wheat harvest and the planting of the cotton crop. District cattle feeders have trimmed inventories in expectation of falling cattle prices. As a result, most district feedlots are operating below capacity. Meanwhile, the recent expansion in district pork production appears to be slowing in response to low hog prices. Most large-scale pork producers are maintaining the size of their breeding herds, while some small-scale producers are dropping out of the industry. Rural lenders report a modest pick-up in business activity in rural communities during the past year. While activity was up overall, main street merchants continue to struggle against increased competition from large retail chains.