Summary Economic conditions remain weak in California, but are improving moderately in other District states. In California, particularly in the south, cutbacks continue in aerospace and defense-related manufacturing, state government, and higher education. Tourism has also fallen in southern California following the Los Angeles riots. Outside of southern California, moderate improvement is reported in non-defense manufacturing, residential construction, retail trade, and agriculture. The strongest conditions remain in Utah and Idaho. Exports to Latin America and Pacific Rim countries are growing moderately, except to Japan where a weaker economy has reduced demand for several District products. Overall business sentiment has improved since our last report. Little upward pressure is reported in wages and prices, although the proportion of contacts expecting lower inflation has decreased. Business Sentiment Economic expectations of Twelfth District business leaders improved since our last report. Over half of our respondents now expect the real economy to expand during the next four quarters at a rate of at least 2.5 percent. This proportion is up from one-third in April. In contrast, almost no respondents expect output to decline during the next four quarters, compared to 5 percent in April and almost 33 percent in January. Most respondents expect improvement in investment, consumer spending, and housing starts. Although few respondents expect inflation to accelerate, the proportion expecting a reduction in inflation has fallen to one-fifth from over one-half in late 1991. Wages and Prices Contacts report little upward pressure on wages and prices in District markets. Wage increases are reported in be in the 3 to 3.5 percent range, with smaller increases reported for some public- sector workers due to budget cutbacks. Price changes are reported to be modest except for health care and insurance. In California, gasoline prices in April were up 15 percent from a year earlier, partially as a result of new environmental restrictions. In Utah, gasoline prices were reported up about 10 cents a gallon since April. Aviation fuel prices, however, are reported down during the past two months. Lumber prices peaked in April and are now off one- third. Standing timber prices, however, have not come down as much as end-use product prices. Prices of materials are reported stable or declining slightly. Retail Trade and Services Contacts with major retailing operations report gradual improvement in department and discount store sales across much of the District, but sluggish conditions in southern California. A contact in Idaho reports some increase in customer traffic for auto dealers, but continued "spotty" sales. Consolidation in the legal profession is beginning to taper off in Washington, with one contact projecting some moderate new hiring by the end of 1992. Demand for telecommunications services is weak, particularly in southern California. A media contact in California reports that advertising activity seems to be picking up, although it is still below last year's level. State government budget problems in California threaten layoffs of state workers and in public higher education. In Hawaii, tourism was down 6 percent in April from a year-earlier, driven by an 18 percent decline in mainland visitors. Violence in Los Angeles has led to the loss of over 5,000 retail jobs in the area. Over the longer-run, tourist activity is a major concern. Hotel occupancy rates have fallen and massive summer reservation cancellations are reported by some hotel managers. Manufacturing Cutbacks in aerospace and defense-related industries continue across the District. Job reductions of 6,500 are projected for Boeing this year in Washington, and McDonnell Douglas has announced the closing of a 2000-worker production facility in southern California. Defense cutbacks have been felt even in the robust Idaho manufacturing sector. Outside of defense and aerospace, conditions are improving modestly. A machinery manufacturer in Utah reports that construction equipment sales are better this year, with only a few final sales lost due to recent labor disputes. Conditions in the electronics manufacturing sector are improving modestly, with no capacity constraints or inventory problems reported. Employment emphasis in electronics has switched from downsizing to holding steady. Pronounced weakness, however, is reported in orders from Japan for electronic components, leading to layoffs in Arizona. Continued demand for electronic components is reported from other Pacific-Rim nations. California high-tech firms exporting circuit boards and other electronic components are finding a strong market in Taiwan, where computer assembly work is active. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries A contact in the timber industry reports that lumber and plywood sales are down, as are product prices, and that inventory levels are adequate-to-high. Orders for paper products and for boxes were strong in April and May. In early 1992, lumber exports were down 21 percent from a year earlier, and shipments to Japan (America's largest overseas market) were off 22 percent. Exports of printing and writing paper, however, were up 30 percent. Exports of fishery products have improved somewhat, but overall demand and prices for seafood remain weak. New orders for export grain have slowed, but exports of other agricultural products to the Pacific Rim and Mexico are reported strong. Export demand from Japan, however, has fallen for produce and beef. Citrus fruit crops in California have rebounded strongly from last season's freeze damage. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate activity varies substantially across District markets. Utah and Idaho are experiencing a boom in residential construction, with single-family starts up 39 and 65 percent, respectively, in the first four months of 1992 from a year earlier. Home sales activity is reported mediocre-to-good in Alaska, but home construction is flat. In Arizona, a contact reports that while residential sales activity has risen during the past year, mortgage loan applications for new purchases have declined noticeably in recent weeks. In the Puget Sound area, residential real estate is characterized as improving slowly. Closed sales, however, declined markedly between February and April. In Hawaii, home sales are brisk in lower-end markets (below $350,000), but slow in more expensive markets. Bids for public sector construction projects in Hawaii are coming in much lower than anticipated. The housing market in California is reported mixed. New home construction remains relatively weak, while sales of new and existing homes have rebounded somewhat from the weak conditions of late 1991. Commercial real estate conditions remain depressed in southern California. Financial Institutions In general, contacts in financial industries report slightly improving conditions. The banking industries in Utah and Idaho continue to enjoy favorable business conditions. Mortgage and consumer loan demand is very strong, while commercial loan demand is stable. A contact in California reports modest improvement in consumer and business loan demand, although overall loan demand remains weak. California savings and loans are experiencing an uptick in lending. Mortgage applications in the Puget Sound area have cooled from the refinance-driven pace, but are leveling out about eight percent ahead of last year. Loan demand in Oregon is reported strong for single-family mortgages. Financing for residential construction is reported available, but land development loans are difficult to find.