Overview According to contacts, growth continues unevenly in the Southeast economy with some sectors continuing to slow and others rebounding. Retailers generally reported that sales increased during May, and inventories were in good shape. Most manufacturers report little change in production. Tourism remains mixed, but the outlook for this summer is positive. Both commercial and multifamily construction markets continue to improve, while the recent decline in mortgage rates is reported to have reinvigorated single-family housing markets in some parts of the region. Reports on prices and wages suggest that pressures remain moderate. Consumer Spending Retailers throughout the District report that sales were up during May, and met or exceeded their expectations. At the same time, most merchants said that they are comfortable with current inventory levels. Sales of home-related products continued to slow with the exception of New Orleans where retailers found it difficult to keep up with demand for home products after recent flooding. Retailers generally anticipate significant sales growth this summer compared with last year. Manufacturing Many industrial contacts reported little change in output during the past month. For those reporting changes, increases matched decreases. Export demand for paper remains strong, offsetting declines in the domestic market. New parts production facilities for the District's expanding number of vehicle assembly plants continue to be announced. Steel producers are expanding operations and modernizing, and several telecommunications equipment manufacturers report an upsurge in orders. In contrast, competitive pressures continue to force carpet manufacturers to scale back with new announcements of layoffs. Sales have been slowing at low-end furniture and bedding manufacturers, and they are paring hours worked and near-term forecasts. Although apparel production is steady for some products such as blue jeans, demand has fallen off for others such as hosiery and women's clothing. Slowing dealer orders have reduced heavy machinery production. Output for packagers is below last year's levels and is expected to decrease further. Some producers of lumber products note a slowdown in demand. Large employers such as NASA continue to downsize, adversely impacting a myriad of small suppliers. Tourism and Business Travel Although contacts characterize Florida tourism as spotty, tourism and business travel are growing in the rest of the region. In south Florida, tourism is rebounding and destination resorts are reporting healthy advance bookings for conventions. Airport arrivals have slowed and hotel occupancy has declined in central Florida. Travel agents report, however, that families are arranging more expensive vacations. Northern Florida resorts reported record-breaking Memorial Day crowds. A new theme park and several outlet malls are stimulating tourism in Mississippi, and hotel occupancy is above last year levels in Nashville and New Orleans. Construction According to most real estate contacts, single-family home sales and construction increased during May. Realtors attribute the increase in housing demand to a dramatic decline in mortgage rates; however, several contacts noted that some buyers are holding off on home purchases because they anticipate rates will go even lower. Both builders and realtors remain optimistic and expect to maintain their current pace through the summer. Commercial and multifamily real estate contacts continue to report strengthening markets. In several parts of the District builders continue to report that strong demand is driving apartment construction. The majority of commercial construction remains build- to-suit; although very little unleased space is available. Realtors anticipate that both commercial and multifamily markets will continue to strengthen during 1995. Financial Services Bankers report that overall loan demand is mixed. Most contacts said there was moderate to strong activity in commercial, industrial, and commercial real estate lending. Consumer loan demand, on the other hand, was characterized as soft. Several bankers noted that auto loan demand had slowed significantly. They said that so far lower mortgage rates had not led to significantly greater mortgage lending. Wages and Prices Wage increases remain generally stable. Skilled construction workers are in such high demand in some areas that employers are recruiting outside their states. Although there are some instances of pressures on input prices, most contacts report that these are not being passed on. At the same time, some construction materials suppliers have recently noted a softening of prices. Apparel and carpet producers are having trouble passing on higher material prices to the consumer. Other contacts report that material prices charged by paper, plastics, tire, and chemical producers continue to escalate.