Overview The rate of economic expansion in the Fifth District appears to have decreased in late April and May. Retailers, service producers, and manufacturers reported that growth decreased in their industries. Likewise, government forecasters reported somewhat slower growth in state revenues. Contacts at area ports and in the tourism industry reported experiencing increased activity. Temporary employment agencies saw increased demand for temporary workers. Dry, hot weather continued to hamper some agricultural production, but conditions improved somewhat. Retail Trade Indicators of retail activity growth decreased in May from their April levels, according to a mail survey of District retailers. The indexes of sales, employment, inventories, big-ticket sales, and shopper traffic decreased. The index of wages increased, however. Survey respondents indicated that retail prices rose 0.6 percent in May. They foresaw slower growth in the demand for their products and an increase of 1.1 percent in their prices during the next six months. Service Production Indicators of service-sector activity growth declined slightly in May from their April levels, according to a District mail survey. The revenues index decreased, and the employment and wage indexes changed little. Service producers reported that prices rose 0.3 percent in May. They expected slower growth in the demand for their services and an increase of 0.9 percent in their prices during the next six months. Manufacturing Most indicators of factory growth declined in May from their April levels, according to a mail survey of District manufacturers. The new orders, backlog, and workweek indexes declined, and the shipments and employment indexes changed little. Manufacturers were less optimistic about the growth in shipments and in the workweek during the next six months, but they expected higher employment growth than they had expected in April; they also anticipated increased exports. Finished goods and raw materials prices rose more slowly in May than in April, and at rates below the general inflation rate. Respondents expected their prices to rise more slowly during the next six months than they had expected in April. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity in May was above that of April and a year ago. Contacts reported above-normal bookings from both vacationers and business groups. Contacts expected better-than- normal business and some price increases during the next six months. Port Activity Representatives at District ports indicated that export levels in April were higher than those in March and a year ago; import trends were mixed. Contacts expected that, during the next six months, exports would increase faster than imports. Temporary Employment A telephone survey of temporary employment agencies indicated that the demand for temporary workers strengthened in May compared to April and a year ago. Demand was particularly strong for skilled computer operators and customer service employees. Contacts expected demand during the next six months to be greater than usual. Wages rose faster than the general price level did during the past year, although contacts expected wages to stabilize during the next six months. Finance District financial institutions reported that credit conditions were mixed during the past six weeks. Interest rates fell slightly for consumer and commercial loans and fell sharply for mortgage loans. Demand increased moderately for mortgage loans and fell slightly for consumer and commercial loans. Mortgage lenders across the District reported an increase in mortgage refinancing inquiries and applications in May. Residential Real Estate According to a telephone survey of District real estate agents and homebuilders, residential real estate activity was unchanged in late April and May. Buyer traffic, home sales, and housing starts changed little over the period, except in South Carolina, where home sales increased. District building permits fell. Contacts reported that lower-priced homes were selling better than expensive homes. Home prices were steady across the District, although the price of lumber decreased. Commercial Real Estate District contacts reported that commercial real estate activity changed little in late April and May. Leasing activity was unchanged except in Charlotte, N.C., where it increased, and in Washington, D.C., where it decreased. Vacancy rates declined slightly in the Carolinas but were stable elsewhere. Commercial rents changed little except in Charlotte, N.C., and Columbia, S.C., where they inched upward. The availability of prime office space tightened somewhat, and contacts reported that build-to-suit office and retail construction changed little in most District cities. Contacts reported some speculative warehouse construction in Greenville, S.C. State Revenues State government forecasters said that tax collections grew somewhat more slowly in May. Real revenue growth was slightly lower in the District of Columbia and Maryland; steady in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia; and slightly higher in West Virginia. Agriculture District agricultural conditions improved in recent weeks, although weather-related problems persisted in some areas, according to agricultural analysts. Spring planting and small-grain harvesting progressed at a normal pace in most areas. In South Carolina, however, and to a lesser extent in North Carolina, above-normal temperatures and below-normal rainfall continued to hamper spring planting and to reduce small-grain yields. Contacts also reported below-normal hay yields in some areas of the District.