Summary District economic conditions improved in May and early June, as consumer spending strengthened and input price pressures eased in the manufacturing sector. Inventory paring prompted retrenchment in District industrial output growth in recent months, while capital equipment producers' reports remained stronger than those from manufacturers of consumer goods. Retail sales growth strengthened in May and early June, after bad weather and some other special factors cut into sales in March and early April. Lower mortgage interest rates have yet to spark a widespread rebound in home sales and construction, but they have certainly buoyed optimism in this sector. District labor markets remained tight, but slowing growth in labor demand eased wage pressures in some areas. Manufacturing Inventory paring prompted retrenchment in District industrial output growth in recent months. Purchasing managers' surveys in the region depicted substantial easing in production and new orders growth during March, April, and May. In turn, the price components of these surveys pointed to diminished input price pressures. Survey respondents' comments and reports from other District contacts pointed to a smoother flow of goods in the pipeline. However, even after its recent decline, the prices-paid component of the Chicago purchasing managers' survey remained at a relatively high level (in line with the late 1980s). District steel production flattened out at high levels through the early part of the second quarter, then declined relatively sharply in late May and early June, largely due to an explosion and downtime at a large blast furnace in Gary. Orders for steel from auto and appliance producers have eased in recent months, according to a large steel producer, while other markets remain relatively strong. A large appliance manufacturer stated that shipments remain below year-earlier levels, but have improved recently. Appliance industry data suggest shipments increased slightly in April and the first four weeks of May on a seasonally adjusted basis. A large manufacturer of housing products stated that shipments are running ahead of orders, but the company is building inventory even as backlogs decline. "We think things could turn up in the latter half of the year, and we don't want to get caught short." Capital equipment producers' reports generally remained stronger than those from manufacturers of consumer goods. A large manufacturer of machine tools characterized orders from the automotive Industry as "stable;" with no significant recent cancellations. Manufacturers of construction equipment continued to report strong sales gains. A heavy-duty truck manufacturer reported that orders fell below year-earlier levels after a stronger-than- expected first quarter, but a price increase and tighter order cancellation policies prompted some of the recent pullback. A manufacturer of industrial automation equipment reported a slight decline in orders growth in April and May, but noted that "we've still got a backlog of biblical proportions." Retail Sales Retail sales growth improved in the District in May and early June. A large retailer reported a stronger sales gain during May than in April, in spite of a more difficult year-over-year comparison. In turn, sales gains in early June were running above May's pace. Growth in this retailer's sales of appliances and home electronics exceeded the company-wide average in May and June, while apparel sales strengthened as well. Another large retailer stated that appliance sales increased along normal seasonal trends and in line with expectations during May, after falling below expectations in March and April. A large superstore chain also reported faster sales gains in May and early June than earlier in the year. Improved weather boosted sales of seasonal items, although this contact noted that these sales remain below targets set earlier in the year. A large apparel retailer stated that sales growth improved in May, particularly in areas where poor weather curtailed seasonal improvement in spring apparel sales in March and April. "We are cautiously optimistic," this contact noted. "We aren't optimistic, we are cautiously optimistic." A large car rental firm stated that business in the region strengthened significantly during May, after adjusting for normal seasonal trends. Sales tax revenues in one large District state posted a year-over-year increase in May twice the rate of the increase for the year-to-date. A majority of surveyed District auto dealers reported stronger sales in May and early June than in April, after discounting normal seasonal trends, while a slimmer majority expected sales to strengthen from the first half of the year to the second half. Most speaker presentations prepared for our recent auto industry outlook conference were cautiously optimistic, and the consensus forecast prepared for the meeting implied a small gain for new vehicle sales in the latter half of 1995. Housing Reports from realtors and homebuilders did not yield evidence of a widespread upturn in housing, but lower mortgage interest rates have certainly buoyed optimism in the sector. A minority of surveyed realtors stated that lower rates boosted homebuying interest in recent weeks. The latest survey conducted by a state association of realtors showed a significant year-over-year decline in existing home sales in the first quarter of 1995. Home sales have been relatively stable this year, according to an association leader, and seem to remain on an uptrend. Homebuilding permits continued to decline in the Chicago area through April and the leader of a large association of homebuilders stated that declining mortgage interest rates "haven't really sparked all that much new activity, yet." Nonetheless, most housing industry contacts still expected better results in the latter half of the year. Labor Markets District labor markets remain tight, but slowing expansion in the demand for labor may have eased wage pressures in recent months. A survey by a large temporary help company showed a flattening out in the rate of expansion in Midwest firms' hiring plans in the second quarter. However, this measure remained at its highest level since the survey began in 1977. Expansion in hiring plans among Midwest durable goods manufacturers has abated thus far in 1995, but these plans remained stronger than those of other Midwest employers as well as their national counterparts. Help-wanted advertising in the East North Central region posted an increase from the first quarter to April. A District newspaper reported that its help-wanted advertising section continued to expand strongly in May, albeit at a slightly slower rate than earlier in the year. "It's still very robust here" this contact stated. Another large newspaper reported that help-wanted advertising revenues posted a larger increase in May than the substantial increase for the year-to-date. An index of help-wanted advertising slipped in Western Michigan, but remained at a relatively high level. Several temporary help companies reported that expansion in demand for temporary workers slowed, but remained positive. At the same time, the supply of workers continued to tighten. One temporary help firm stated that its placements could grow faster were the supply of labor to increase, even if expansion in demand were to continue to slow. Prices charged client companies are still expected to increase, largely due to the rising expense of attracting workers. The regional manager of one large temporary help company stated that unfilled orders "are still running at a high level, and we're only just starting to enter into our busy period." Automotive-related placements slowed in Indiana, according to this contact, but total unfilled orders are still at high levels.