Summary The District's economic growth has been sluggish. District employment has leveled off in recent months, growing more slowly in all sectors than in the nation. Both consumer spending and construction activity have also been weak. Meanwhile, it appears that the drought will reduce District corn yields by as much as 50 percent, but recent rains will help the soybean crop. Employment Following rapid growth earlier in the year, District nonagricultural employment rose at only a 0.4 percent annual rate in the three months through May, while rising at a 3.6 percent rate nationally. District employment growth trailed the national average in all sectors. Employment in District services and trades sectors, major sources of earlier growth, expanded at only a 1.2 percent rate in the March-May period, while in goods-producing sectors, including mining, construction, and manufacturing, it declined at a 2.5 percent rate. Nonelectrical machinery was the only manufacturing sector in which employment grew substantially. Consumer Spending District department store sales have been weak in recent months. Retailers in Memphis and St. Louis report second-quarter sales slightly below year-ago levels, while Louisville and Little Rock sales were flat to 5 percent higher. Sales of shoes and women's apparel were particularly weak. Inventories, however, are only slightly higher than desired because of heavy discounting to liquidate summer goods. The outlook is one of cautious optimism: retailers generally feel that sales in August and September will be 2 to 6 percent higher than a year earlier. In line with these restrained expectations, inventory growth of fall goods should be more limited than in recent years. Construction District construction activity declined in recent months and was considerably weaker than the national average. Much of the decline was concentrated in Arkansas and Kentucky. The value of District residential building contracts awarded in the three months through May fell 6.9 percent from the previous three-month period and was 8.9 percent lower than a year earlier. Nonresidential building contracts fell by 12.7 percent in the March-May period and were down 18.6 percent from a year earlier. Banking Total loans at weekly reporting District banks increased at a 7.7 percent annual rate in the second quarter, somewhat slower than in the same period last year. Commercial lending, which has picked up in recent months, expanded at a 9.3 percent annual rate in the second quarter, slightly higher than in the same period last year. Much of the acceleration in commercial loan growth, however, can be attributed to purchases of loan participations by large District banks. Agriculture Widespread rains arrived too late to prevent significant damage to the District's corn crop. Corn yields are expected to be down 50 percent or more in Missouri, southern Illinois and central Tennessee. Western Tennessee received timely rains in early July; still, corn yield losses of 25 percent are anticipated. Farmers' have turned their attention now to the soybean crop which accounts for over 30 percent of District crop receipts. Some damage to soybean yields has already occurred but the crucial period of growth, from late July to mid-August, is yet to come. With enough rain during this period, further damage to soybeans can be minimized and a near-normal crop harvested. The drought caused some soybeans to be planted such later than normal, however, increasing the risk that an early frost could damage the crop. Cotton and rice in Arkansas have suffered only minor drought damage, with over 90 percent of these crops in fair-to-good condition. The Mississippi River remains open to barge traffic, but travel times from St. Louis to the Gulf of Mexico have doubled. So far, the river network has been able to meet export commitments because grain shipping is normally slow at this time of the year.