Summary Most reports on business activity in the District indicate continued strength. So far this year, total payroll employment in the five states has trended upward at a somewhat slower pace than in the nation, mainly due to first quarter layoffs at auto makers and suppliers. Production cuts and stronger sales cleared excess car inventories, and were followed by increases in production. Purchasing managers in Chicago reported strong gains in activity through June, with widespread price increases. Reports are similarly robust from contacts in various industries, with the main exception being office and residential construction. Steel demand continues strong, reflecting the rise in auto production, improved markets for a wide range of equipment, and vigorous demand for construction steel reflecting in part rising industrial construction. Severe drought, relieved by scattered rains in mid-July, has caused serious problems for many farmers and adversely affected agricultural suppliers. Production cuts, or the possibility of cuts, resulting from low water supplies have been reported in a few other industries, including papermaking and petroleum refining, but do not appear to be widespread. Motor Vehicles Sales of cars have exceeded the expectations of many forecasters. The first half sales rate outpaced sales in all of calendar year 1987, though trailing 1986. Inventories are in good balance. Production is expected to stay relatively strong in the second half. Truck sales have trended upward and are likely to exceed 5 million units, a record, for all of 1988. Steel Production of steel is slowing in the third quarter to allow for needed maintenance and to keep output in line with seasonal slowdowns at customers' plants. Robust orders should support a high level of output over the rest of the year. Sales at steel service centers, which have been growing very strongly, are slowing less than usual at this time of year. Shipments of steel to motor vehicle makers are expected to stay strong. Purchasing by other consumer goods makers is holding up well. Demand from some equipment makers is the strongest since before the 1981-82 recession. Orders for construction steel continue robust, overall, helped by the upturn in factory construction. Equipment Manufacturers of various types of equipment are seeing good demand for their products. Some machinery makers report double-digit increases in orders and backlogs, with particularly large increases in sectors which had been depressed. Orders for metal-cutting machine tools this year have been about double the year-earlier pace, though still well short of the high levels of the late 1970s and 1980. The upturn is broad-based and inquiries suggest that further gains in orders are likely. Railcar orders are up sharply after having been very depressed since collapsing in the early 1980s. A lift truck manufacturer is shifting some production from a European plant to Illinois. Makers of other materials handling equipment, food industry machinery, and other types of business equipment have seen sizable gains in orders. Demand is described as very good for various types of fabricated metal parts. Consumer goods sales are holding up well, including appliances as well as other types, buying of boat trailers, for example, is quite strong. However, there are indications that the recent strengthening in agricultural equipment is starting to abate. Construction Construction activity in the District this year is at a fairly high level but shows signs of slowing. Contracts for residential construction (measured in square feet) in the first five months were 15 percent below a year earlier in the five states. The sharpest year-over-year declines occurred early in the year, reflecting adverse weather, but contracts in the spring continued below a year earlier. Pouring of concrete at Chicago-area residential construction sites this summer is reported to be at a good pace but below last spring despite favorable weather. Nonresidential construction contracts in the first five months were 5 percent lower in District states. In contrast, shipments of gypsum board in the District states for five months were 1 percent higher than last year, reflecting finishing work on structures begun earlier. Chicago office building construction, still at a high level, is described as having slowed somewhat, bringing the market for office space into better balance. The industrial real estate market and construction of factories and warehouses have strengthened. Work on highways and streets in the District will be strong this year. Agriculture With no respite until recently from extremely dry and hot conditions, prospects for this fall's crops deteriorated sharply. Hot weather throughout much of the Midwest, coinciding with the start of the pollination state for the corn crop in early July, inflicted irreversible damage. Estimates of the resulting reductions in per acre yields, however, are still subject to considerable uncertainty. Scattered rain and cooler temperatures beginning in mid-July appear to have halted the deterioration in corn condition ratings in much of the District. Soybeans remain under stress but the improved weather will temper the overall decline in production. During June, most of the irreversible damage was concentrated on spring wheat, barley, oats, and hay. In addition, the grazing capacity of range and pasture land was seriously depleted and vegetables in the Great Lakes region, an important source of processing supplies, were hit hard.