Summary The Fourth District's economy continues to grow. Ohio's unemployment rate fell for the fourth straight month to 5.9 percent as a result of employment gains in both manufacturing and nonmanufacturing sectors. Manufacturing firms report steady gains in production, new orders, and employment. Retail and auto sales remain sluggish. Banks report relatively strong growth in commercial and consumer installment loans. Retail Sales Retailers report sluggish sales, and they continue to be cautious about prospects for improvement in the fall. Furniture and appliance inventories are higher than a year ago, and stores have had to resort to considerable discounting of summer merchandise to trim large inventories. Merchandisers expect that rising interest rates will keep furniture and appliance sales soft in the months ahead. Retailers generally are ordering very cautiously for the fall because they expect to have difficulty passing through to their customers the large price increases being paid on imported goods, especially apparel. Retailers report that, where possible, they are shifting to domestic sources. Auto dealers report that sales picked up in the last half of June but turned sluggish in the first half of July. Some suggest the early July slowdown is seasonal and will be reversed in the last half of the month. Recent minor adjustments in incentive programs seem to be having little impact on sales. Dealers generally see no indications that customers are becoming less willing to spend, and one dealer reported that customers seem to be choosing more expensive models and options. Some dealers complained they have lost sales because inventories are too low while others expect to have difficulty clearing out some models at the end of the model year. Foreign cars continue to sell well. Labor Markets Labor markets showed broad-based improvements during the last several months. Overall, Ohio's unemployment rate fell to 5.9 percent in June, the lowest in the last several months. The decrease resulted from both a decrease of 10,000 unemployed workers and an increase of 23,000 workers. Much of the increase came from the service sector, especially business services, hotels, and recreation services. However, manufacturing employment has increased steadily, with durable goods employment showing strong improvement, particularly in the smaller cities. Recent employment projections indicate improved job prospects for these cities, which were recently severely affected by the decline in manufacturing. Most of the employment gains in the large urban areas were outside the manufacturing sector. The average workweek for Ohio production workers increased by .2 hours in May to 43.2 hours. Weekly earnings were up $2.84. The largest increases in earnings were in motor vehicles and equipment and blast furnace and basic steel products. Manufacturing Manufacturing in the Fourth District continues to rebound, with increases reported in production, new orders, and employment. Comments from purchasing managers in Cincinnati and Cleveland indicate that production levels are taxing capacity and that orders are being scheduled into next year. The increase in production and new orders continues to exert pressure on the prices and availability of a wide range of commodities, particularly bearings, electric motors, and a variety of chemical and steel products. The higher prices and the unpredictability of lead times have led some purchasers to increase raw material inventories. However, most businesses report that the high volume of new orders and the steady backlogs of existing orders should absorb the additional stockpiling. Favorable exchange rates continue to benefit many industries in the region. For example, through the first five months of 1988, orders for machine tools have increased 83 percent from the same period last year. Raw steel production in the Youngstown, Pittsburgh, and Lake Erie regions rose 15.8 percent during the last three months over the same three-month period a year ago. Improvement in the steel industry has prompted several large steelmakers to modernize and expand existing plants in the District. Banking District loan demand has been quite strong. Total loans outstanding at large banks rose at an annual pace of 22 percent from mid-May to the beginning of July. Consumer installment loans, which grew at an annual rate of more than 50 percent, accounted for much of the overall loan growth. Nevertheless, the demand for business credit and mortgages was also relatively strong with commercial and industrial loans growing at an annual pace of 11 percent and real estate loans growing at 13 percent.