Economic expansion continues at a pace varying from sluggish in two Districts to moderate or strong elsewhere. Employment levels are stable or rising, with tight labor market conditions noted in some areas. While retail sales are generally lackluster, auto sales have picked up. Manufacturers report moderate to healthy gains in sales and orders, although four Districts note signs of a possible slowing. Capacity constraints and shortages have developed in some Districts and materials price increases are widespread. Construction activity is mixed, with home construction reported to be weaker than nonresidential building. While the impact of this summer's drought varies, even within states, the corn and wheat crops have suffered extensive damage. The recent rains may save much of the soybean crop, however. Consumer Spending Most Reserve Banks find retail sales to be sluggish, with only Atlanta and Minneapolis reporting any real vigor. Respondents cited apparel and furniture sales as particularly weak; moreover, the rising cost of imported clothing has reduced margins as well as sales volumes. Inventories, however, are said to be in balance: only in the Cleveland and St. Louis Districts were buildups reported. Boston and San Francisco retailers attribute this healthy inventory situation to careful monitoring: retailers in New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, and St. Louis, are reportedly resorting to heavy promotions to clear the shelves. Retailers expressed mild optimism about the next six months, with those in the Atlanta, Minneapolis, Richmond and Dallas Districts expressing greater confidence in the future than merchants in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Kansas City, and St. Louis. In marked contrast to general retail conditions, many Districts characterize auto sales as strong and above dealer expectations. Only Richmond finds car sales declining. Domestic makes, aided by manufacturer incentives, are said to be moving briskly. Foreign autos, by contrast, are reportedly rising in price and languishing in the showrooms. San Francisco finds inventories of unsold imports now standing at "unsustainably high levels." Manufacturing Manufacturing sales and orders continue to grow at a moderate to healthy pace in most Districts. Respondents credit manufacturers' investment and export activity for much of this growth. While contacts in Philadelphia and Dallas see some pick-up in demand from earlier months, Boston, New York, Richmond and San Francisco report recent signs of slowing. Strong sectors include steel and other primary metals, machinery, particularly machine tools, fabricated metals, commercial aircraft and railcars. Atlanta and Chicago also see strength in autos, tires and some other consumer goods. Among the weaker sectors were agricultural equipment and most defense goods, as well as energy-related and construction-related products. Increases in the prices of such materials as metals, paper and food were widely noted. While a few contacts expect these prices to stabilize, more think they will continue to rise. Kansas City, Cleveland, Richmond and San Francisco report that shortages of steel, valves, castings, motors and chemicals have developed. Cleveland, Dallas and San Francisco also mention capacity constraints, especially in petro-chemicals and pulp and paper. In this environment, manufacturers are reportedly choosing to hold higher inventories and are finding it easier to raise their own finished goods prices. Manufacturing employment is generally stable or increasing slightly. Cleveland and Philadelphia report healthy gains while Atlanta and Boston report recent layoffs. Most contacts foresee little or no acceleration in wage pressures. San Francisco respondents were evenly divided on this issue, however, and Dallas and Minneapolis noted some industry-specific pressures. Cleveland Residential construction is down from year-ago levels, although the Richmond District reports strong housing construction and sales. In the San Francisco District residential building is very healthy along the coast but weak in some of the inland states. Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis and Kansas City also observe substantial variations in the strength of housing sales and construction within their districts, with larger cities experiencing stronger activity than more rural areas. Reports on nonresidential construction and real estate activity were positive for the most part. Although nonresidential construction contracts were down from a year ago in the St. Louis District, office building construction has surged in some cities in the Atlanta District and leasing has picked up in New York. Office building construction has slowed somewhat in Chicago, but remains at a high level; industrial real estate and construction activity in the District has strengthened. Dallas reports that both nonresidential and residential construction contracts have stabilized, a development suggesting that a prolonged downturn in construction may be at an end. Agriculture and Natural Resources The impact of this simmer's drought varies considerably by crop-even within a given state. In the Kansas City District, winter wheat matured on time and the harvest was normal, but in the Chicago and Minneapolis Districts recent rains were too late for the spring wheat, barley, oats and hay. The July rains were also too late for much of the corn crop. In some parts of the Kansas City, St. Louis and Minneapolis Districts, corn yields are expected to be down 50 percent or more. However, if the recent improvement in the weather holds, Chicago, St. Louis, Atlanta and Minneapolis suggest that the soybean crop could recover to near normal levels. Cotton, rice, sugar cane, peaches and citrus fruits are also in good shape, but the state of vegetable crops varies. In the Chicago District (an important source of processing supplies), vegetables were severely damaged, but in Atlanta the crop is satisfactory. While ranchers have sold more animals than usual and cattle prices have fallen, no large-scale liquidation has occurred. Instead, according to reports from Dallas, Atlanta and Kansas City, record numbers of cattle have been put on supplemental feed; as a result, ranchers' profits will be squeezed. Nevertheless, the Kansas City and Minneapolis Districts point out that improvements in the financial positions of farm borrowers and lenders over the last two years will help most withstand the impact of the drought. Atlanta reports that demand for forest products has weakened recently with the slowdown in building activity, while San Francisco sees no such decline. Both are experiencing strong export activity. With the price of oil below $15 per barrel in mid-July, Atlanta finds oil production slipping and Dallas and Kansas City report or expect a fall in the rig count. Atlanta and Richmond see coal output rising with help from the weak dollar and strength in steel. Financial Activity Except in the Dallas District, loan demand is healthy. Business lending is reported to have accelerated in the Philadelphia and Atlanta Districts, while consumer lending has grown vigorously in Cleveland, Kansas City and San Francisco. In the Cleveland District consumer installment loans have recently increased at an annual rate greater than 50 percent. Consumer lending is said to be rather weak in the Philadelphia and New York Districts, but demand for home equity loans remains very strong. New York respondents also note that delinquency rates on consumer loans are equal to or lower than year-ago levels. Reports on commercial real estate lending are mixed, with Cleveland reporting relatively strong growth and Atlanta and Philadelphia seeing some tapering off. Richmond bank executives report substantial increases in deposits in July; Philadelphia bankers have also seen a pickup. In the Dallas District, however, deposits and assets, particularly business loans, both continue to decline.