Overview According to contacts around the District, the Southeast economy continued to expand in early 1995, although reports showed some softness as well as strength. Most retailers reported flat February sales, but expect a good spring selling season. Tourism remains depressed in some areas, but business and convention travel are strong. Single-family home building and sales are still slowing, although the commercial real estate markets continue to improve. District wage and price pressures remain moderate. Consumer Spending District retailers report that late January sales were up on a year- over-year basis, while February sales were generally flat. According to merchants, however, bad weather was mainly responsible for February's disappointing performance. Most said that they were pleased with current inventory levels. Retailers expect improved sales this spring. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity is characterized by increases in some sectors offsetting scale-backs in others. Since the last Beigebook, both material and finished goods inventories have increased moderately for most firms contacted. Some regional producers report that weakness in the Mexican economy is slowing their exports and is forcing changes in capital spending plans. In Tennessee, auto industry plants are said to be operating at capacity but there is concern that any downturn in the national economy would have a quick adverse impact. Suppliers to the region's vehicle assembly plants, however, remain optimistic about the near-term outlook and expect orders to remain strong. Contacts report that both the steel and rubber industries in Alabama are doing much better than in the past few years. Some producers of telecommunications equipment continue to report strong activity. Increasing commercial construction is stimulating demand at regional firms that fabricate building materials, and manufacturers of lumber products report strong sales and orders. Paper and paperboard mills are operating at or near capacity limitations. One contact, however, thinks that paper industry activity is currently peaking and will begin a gradual decline over the next few mouths. Although there continues to be scattered reports of layoffs by small, niche-oriented apparel firms, a few large apparel producers are adding to employment rolls and expanding capacity as a result of strong product demand. Tourism and Business Travel While tourism is slumping in parts of the region, business travel is reportedly taking up some of the slack, keeping hotel vacancies at low levels. Strong convention activity continues on Mississippi's Gulf Coast and in central Florida; advance 1995 bookings for hotels in Atlanta are above year-ago levels. Overall, Florida tourism remains lackluster, although attendance at major attractions is reportedly slowly trending upward. In southern Florida, although Central and South American tourism remains strong, visits from other areas have not met expectations. Contacts report that this is due in part to competition from other destinations. Cruise ship bookings out of Miami are down sharply for some firms. Construction Most real estate contacts in the District report that single-family home sales slowed once again and fell below last year's strong levels during January and February. However, sales are described as respectable in most parts of the region. Realtors attribute the continued slowdown to uncertainty on the part of buyers, but most anticipate that demand will increase this spring. The majority of builders continue to be conservative, and, as a result, some realtors are concerned that a short supply of new homes in some areas will limit sales. Several areas continue to report a shortage of skilled construction workers, but wage pressures have eased from earlier in the housing cycle. Commercial and multifamily real estate contacts continue to report strengthening markets. Several areas of the District report that strong demand is driving apartment construction. Large blocks of contiguous office space are reported to be scarce throughout the region. However, the majority of commercial construction remains build-to-suit with very little speculative space available. Realtors continue to be optimistic and anticipate that both commercial and multifamily markets will continue to strengthen during 1995. Financial Services Reports from bankers around the region about loan demand were mixed. Overall loan demand was steady. Home mortgage lending continues to slow as the housing sector cools off. Auto lending also has cooled appreciably. Consumer lending in general was reported as steady or slowing slightly, while commercial loans continue to rise slowly. However, several bankers noted that the economy was beginning to slow and they expect that a slowing would quickly affect new loan generation. Wages and Prices Manufacturing contacts generally report higher prices for materials and their own finished goods, but also anticipate less such price pressure in the future. Paper, paperboard, and newsprint prices continue to rise boosting activity by producers but adversely affecting publishers and others who use paper products. Producers of building materials, textiles, apparel, furniture, and plastic products, report increasing prices paid for raw materials, and more of these firms note that they are charging higher finished product prices than was the case late last year. Labor availability problems and wage pressures are limited to a few parts of the region and do not appear to be spreading at this time.