General Business Conditions There has been some slowing in the growth of District business activity, although outright declines are rare and most industries are still reporting high levels of production. Capital goods producers continue to pace industrial growth, led by a strengthening in export markets. Employment conditions may have actually improved somewhat, and unemployment in most regions is substantially below the national average. Nevertheless, significant wage pressures are not reported. And while industrial materials costs are continuing to rise at an above-average rate, few manufacturers indicate that these increases are spilling into finished goods prices in any notable way. Manufacturing The District's industrial sector remains strong, with perhaps some modest slowing in auto and auto-related manufacturing. Capital goods producers continue to report orders growth, especially from foreign customers. Indeed, a slight slackening in domestic demand for capital goods has been more than offset by an acceleration in exports. A steady or slightly rising proportion of manufacturers are reporting higher employment levels; only a small and declining number indicate reductions. In many industries and regions, companies are having difficulty finding skilled laborers, and indeed, unemployment rates in the District are among the nation's lowest. Several respondents also reported higher rates of labor turnover. Nevertheless, signs of wage pressure are difficult to find, and most companies are still reporting wage growth at, or perhaps slightly below, the rate of inflation. A major commercial real estate firm reports a shortage of industrial space, and industrial construction activity appears to be on the rise. Several manufacturers report a moderation in the rise in industrial commodity prices, although the number of goods whose cost has increased is still very large and ranges from wood products (lumber, paper, and wallboard), to plastics (polyester and PVC), to metals (aluminum, copper, and steel). Retailers Although February is traditionally a slow month, District retailers were nonetheless disappointed in this year's performance, and many are now reporting higher-than-desired inventories. Most notable are the excess stocks of winter outer wear, a reflection of unseasonably mild temperatures. While a few large chain stores indicate solid sales gains, most report flat or declining receipts, and specialty stores, such as women's apparel and furniture establishments, are down significantly. Some (if not most) retailers point to higher interest rates as a key to the slowdown in durable goods sales, although much of the slippage has reportedly come through a softening housing market. Retail market analysts are cautious about the near-term outlook, in part because of the uncertain significance of the recent sales slowdown. Moreover, they suggest that March sales will be negatively influenced by a late Easter. One of the District's largest furniture sellers reports that many suppliers will not quote prices on orders more than 30 days in advance because of the uncertain cost of wood and other furniture construction materials. However, price competition remains severe and retailers say that it is virtually impossible to pass price increases through to consumers. Autos Fourth District auto dealers report a downturn in new light vehicle sales between late January and the end of February. The recent weakness may have actually begun in November and has become more pronounced since the beginning of the year. However, demand for some light trucks and sport/utility vehicles remains strong, and one market analyst observed an improving market for used vehicles. Slower auto sales have resulted in a considerable unplanned inventory buildup - a dramatic turnaround from the shortages that dealers complained about through the third quarter of 1994. The buildup of vehicle stocks combined with higher interest rates, has reportedly caused a surge in floor plan costs. Auto dealers also point to higher interest rates as a pivotal development in the new-car market although bad weather in February may also have hurt sales. Still other sources my that rising interest rates for new-car loans are not reducing sales as much as are the restraining income effects of higher mortgage rates on disposable incomes. These higher rates have virtually eliminated home refinancing while boosting mortgage payments for households with variable-rate agreements. Fourth District auto dealers remain hopeful that sales will improve in the months ahead, but few believe that the gains will rival last spring's performance. Price increases for 1995 new-car models were bumped marginally higher early this year. However, incentive plans are becoming increasingly common, helping to offset the higher costs. Banking and Credit Loan demand remains strong, especially in the commercial lending categories. Business borrowing has recently broadened to include mergers and acquisitions, although credit for capital expansion and inventory floor plans is also rising. While some slowing in the growth of consumer borrowing is noted, it appears to be centered in new-auto credit. Household borrowing in other non-real estate categories is still strong Perhaps the most significant drop-off in lending activity has been in the mortgage area, where refinancing activity has slowed to a standstill and new-mortgage extensions are down substantially from last fall.