Overview Economic activity in the Fifth District changed little in January and February. Areas exhibiting little or no growth included residential and commercial real estate and the service-producing sector. Consumer spending and manufacturing activity were down slightly. Activity at District ski resorts and ports was up, however, and loan demand was stronger. Conditions in agriculture continued to be better than a year ago. Consumer Spending Preliminary results from a mail survey of retailers indicated that District retail activity decreased in February. Sales and employment decreased, and shopper traffic and wages were unchanged. Inventories were higher, and big-ticket sales rose slightly. Survey respondents indicated that retail prices increased 0.8 percent in February. They foresaw increased demand for their products and an increase of 1.5 percent in their prices during the next six months. Service-Producing Firms Preliminary results from a mail survey indicated that activity in the service-producing sector changed little in February. Revenues were unchanged; wages rose; and employment rose slightly. Service producers indicated that prices rose 0.2 percent in February. They expected increased demand for their services and an increase of 0.7 percent in their prices during the next six months. Manufacturing Most indicators of factory activity declined slightly in February from their January levels, according to preliminary results of a mail survey of District manufacturers. The shipments index changed little and the new orders, backlog, and employment indexes declined somewhat. Manufacturers expected shipments, employment, the workweek, and wages to increase during the next six months. Finished goods prices rose more slowly in February than in January, and at a rate less than the general inflation rate. Raw materials prices rose more in February than in January, and at a rate higher than the general inflation rate. Respondents expected prices to rise less during the next six months than they had in January. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity in February was above that of January and a year ago. The ski season got off to a slow start in December and January because of a lack of snow, but activity at ski resorts rebounded with colder weather and more snow in February. Winter bookings at District hotels and motels were mixed compared to a year ago. Contacts expected better-than-normal business and moderate price increases over the next six months. Ports Representatives at District ports indicated that export and import levels in January were higher than those in December and a year ago. They attributed increased imports to strong economic growth domestically and increased exports to strong economic growth abroad. The port representatives expected that, during the next six months, both exports and imports would increase at similar rates. Finance District financial institutions reported that loan demand picked up during the last seven weeks. Demand for mortgage loans increased sharply, that for commercial loans increased moderately, and that for consumer loans remained steady. Interest rates were higher on consumer and commercial loans, but were lower on mortgage loans. Residential Real Estate According to a telephone survey of District realtors and builders, residential real estate activity was unchanged in late January and February. Building permits, home sales, and housing starts were stable over the period. Buyer traffic, however, increased. Home prices were steady, except in North Carolina, where they decreased. District building material prices and subcontractor wages were unchanged. Commercial Real Estate District contacts reported that commercial real estate activity changed little in late January and February compared to December. Real estate contacts reported that construction activity increased, especially that of build-to-suit office space around Washington, D.C. Posted commercial rental rates were unchanged. Commercial vacancy rates remained steady, except in North Carolina and West Virginia, where they declined. Leasing agents reported that the availability of prime office space tightened in most District cities. State Revenues State government forecasters said that tax collections grew moderately in January, and they expected similar rates of growth in February. Real revenue growth remained strong in Maryland, North Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia; somewhat weak in South Carolina; and flat in the District of Columbia. Agriculture Agricultural conditions in January and February remained better than a year ago, according to District farm analysts. Warmer-than-normal temperatures led to unusually high livestock survival rates and small-grain crop development. Fruit trees budded prematurely, however, increasing their vulnerability to a late freeze. Pastures were in excellent condition, leading to earlier-than-normal cattle grazing.