Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve districts suggest that the pace of the economic expansion has moderated over the past two months. Half the districts note that growth has slowed, while the remaining districts generally report that conditions are mixed. Retail sales and residential construction weakened across much of the country. In contrast, manufacturing continued to grow in all but one of the regions and labor markets remained strong. Although commodity prices continued to rise, several districts note that the rate of increase has decelerated. There is little evidence that strength in labor markets or increases in commodity prices have spilled over into wages or prices of finished goods. Retail Recent reports suggest that retail sales growth, measured on a year- over-year basis, slowed in over two-thirds of the districts. Retailers in Boston report sales were flat or declining for a broad range of merchandise, including winter apparel, housewares, and sports equipment. Minneapolis cites news reports of a "retail slump," while retailers in both the Dallas and San Francisco regions report that sales declined along the Mexican border because of the weak peso. While two districts report noticeably stronger retail sales growth, they note that much of the strength is attributable to special factors, weather in New York and clearance promotions in Kansas City. Retail inventories have increased beyond planned levels in the Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas districts. Auto sales have generally weakened; dealers in the San Francisco region are using rebates and other incentives to bolster sales. Manufacturing Growth in the manufacturing sector has generally remained strong since the beginning of the year. Manufacturing strengthened in Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Dallas, while remaining robust in Cleveland, Chicago, and Kansas City. Sources in Minneapolis describe the strongest manufacturing performance in recent years. Boston, New York, Atlanta, and San Francisco report that conditions were mixed, with weakness in some segments of manufacturing offsetting strength in others. The sector continued to grow but at a slower pace in St. Louis. Preliminary results of Richmond's survey of manufacturers show that new orders, backlogs, and employment indexes were down slightly in February from their January levels. Contacts in three of the districts expect the pace of manufacturing growth to moderate in coming months. Capital goods industries have been particularly robust. Cleveland reports that orders of capital goods, led by strength in export markets, have continued to grow strongly. In St. Louis, exports of capital goods included construction equipment shipped to Japan in the wake of the Kobe earthquake. Computer equipment, pulp and paper products, and electronics are also repeatedly cited as sources of manufacturing strength. Examples of manufacturing weakness include the aerospace industry (Boston and San Francisco), automobiles and auto supplies (Boston and Chicago), and apparel (Atlanta and Dallas). Construction and Real Estate Construction of single-family homes continued to slow from 1994 levels across much of the country. Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco report that homebuilding declined, while Philadelphia and Minneapolis report that activity leveled off. Looking forward, however, contacts in a third of the districts expect demand to strengthen later this spring. In contrast to the weakness in single-family homes, the construction of multifamily housing increased in both the Atlanta and Kansas City regions. Reports on commercial construction are more upbeat. Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas note an increase in commercial construction, driven by such diverse factors as a scarcity of large blocks of contiguous office space (Atlanta), expansion of manufacturing capacity (Chicago), and increased demand for warehouse space (Minneapolis). Reports on commercial real estate markets are mixed, however. The market softened for office space in midtown Manhattan. Philadelphia notes that its office market remains weak, although demand for industrial space has firmed. Within the San Francisco region, commercial real estate markets are weak in California but strong elsewhere. Banking and Finance Loan demand was steady or higher in nearly all of the districts. The strength in lending was primarily attributable to commercial and industrial loans. In contrast, New York, Atlanta, St. Louis, and Kansas City report that residential mortgage lending slowed as the housing sector cooled; Cleveland notes that mortgage refinancing is at a standstill. Consumer lending, especially automobile loans, weakened in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, and St. Louis while remaining flat in Richmond and Dallas. Agriculture Favorable weather conditions coupled with increases in crop and livestock prices brightened the outlook for farm incomes. Chicago reports that market conditions in the agricultural sector held up better than expected. Mild winter weather benefited livestock production in the Richmond and Minneapolis districts. St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco note that strong domestic demand coupled with reduced foreign supply boosted cotton prices. Prices and Wages Although commodity prices have continued to rise, several districts report that the rate of increase seems to have eased. Boston notes that some suppliers of steel and chemicals are now offering customer rebates to soften the impact of price increases. Contacts in Cleveland report a moderation in the rate of increase of industrial commodity prices. Fewer manufacturers in Minneapolis report delivery delays, while manufacturers in Dallas expect price pressures to ease in coming months. In contrast, Chicago sees little evidence that manufacturers' input prices have ebbed and notes that recovery abroad may put upward pressure on commodity prices by tightening import supplies. In general, the districts report that increases in commodity prices have not spilled over into prices of finished goods. Boston notes that finished goods prices have generally remained stable, with increases for some products offset by decreases for others. Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas report that intense competition among retailers kept prices flat despite increased input costs. Labor market conditions are generally strong. Cleveland, Chicago, and Minneapolis report that labor markets have remained tight. A survey by a large temporary help firm in Chicago showed further strengthening in employers' hiring plans after record high levels late last year. Similarly, Minneapolis notes shortages of skilled workers, particularly in manufacturing. New York, Atlanta, St. Louis, and Kansas City report spot shortages in labor. In contrast, manufacturers hiring for replacement purposes in the Boston region had little difficulty finding qualified workers. Despite the strength in labor markets, the districts report little evidence of upward pressure on wages.