Businessmen in the Eighth District indicate that the upward economic trend of recent months is continuing and they are "reasonably optimistic" about business prospects for the rest of the year. However, many businessmen expressed concern that inflation will continue unabated. Retail and manufacturing sales, production, and construction continue their upward advance from the autumn trough. Financial agencies are pessimistic as to loan demand, but report that they must continue to pay high rates for funds in order to attract savings. The outlook for agriculture and related industries is more promising now that weather conditions have improved. Representatives of major retail outlets in the district report continuing increases in sales. Some feel that the recent rise in sales volume reflects a less apprehensive consumer attitude with respect to the economy. None indicated a relaxation of the more stringent inventory policies initiated last year, despite their belief that sales will continue to be strong through the fall. The trend of manufacturing sales and production remains basically unchanged from last month. Manufacturing respondents indicate employment is holding steady and foresee no significant increase in hirings in the near future. The machine tool business still has not recovered from its recent slump. Business investment continues to rise slowly, and respondents indicate that investment this year will be slightly above last year's dollar volume but less in real terms. Both residential and industrial construction continue to expand throughout the district. Construction in St. Louis county, the largest county in the district, set a record in the first five months of this year, according to the public works director. Total construction in the first five months of this year reached $81 million, exceeding the previous record set in 1969 by $5 million and the 1970 total by $26 million. Housing construction is likewise reported to be vigorous in other metropolitan areas of the district. Loan demand has apparently lagged behind other economic indicators in the Eighth District. The decline in business loan demand at commercial banks, which began last December, seems to have ended. However, no substantial increase in commercial loan demand is expected until the end of the third quarter. One respondent stated that the prime rate is too low in light of the high rates paid on deposits, and anticipates raising the prime rate in the near future. Despite the rise in construction, loanable funds at savings and loan associations in the St. Louis area continue to be available with little change in interest rates. This is due to the extremely rapid flow of deposits into these institutions in recent months. One savings and loan association official expressed concern about the possibility of higher market interest rates, which in view of the ceiling on rates paid, may lead to a slower rate of growth in deposits. The outlook for agriculture and farm-related business has picked up in recent weeks. The earlier adverse weather conditions, which required many crops to be replanted, have generally improved, and farmers are now more optimistic. Increased agri-business sales were reported. Herbicide sales were especially strong, in part reflecting increased crop acreage. Progress of government efforts to curb inflation has been disappointing to most respondents. They are concerned about recent large wage settlements which they feel set dangerous precedents for future wage negotiations. Many businessmen expressed concern about the recent acceleration in the rate of growth of the money stock. One respondent stated that this rapid growth of money will cause inflation to be an "uncomfortable yoke for some time to come."