Opinion seems to be growing that business activity has picked up and the outlook has improved. Leading businessmen and bankers throughout the District describe conditions with phrases such as "definitely up," "continuing to move at a steady pace," "moving steadily but slowly ahead," and "data seem to substantiate that the economy is on the road back." Bearish reports and attitudes have diminished. The increased optimism seems warranted on the basis of reports of new construction, plant announcements, and production increases. Inflation remains a worry. A $.5-billion planned community has been announced for Nashville. The community will be called "Metrocenter" and will eventually include residential, commercial, industrial, and recreational properties. This follows last month's announcement of a $100-million plus project in the Atlanta area. Scattered construction announcements from elsewhere in the District include a major shopping mall in Pensacola, three apartment complexes in the Jacksonville area, a two-auditorium theater in Vicksburg, a motel and convention complex in Auburn, and a recreational lake community near Montgomery. Condominium sales (and prices) along Florida's Gold Coast are reported to be up about 30 percent from last year. A director of an industrial development department reports that he received more inquiries in April than he had received in all of 1970. Some firms, he notes, are looking for existing plants in order to get production under way quickly. In 1972, this director expects to see a resurgence much like the rapid growth of the early 1960's. The tempo of plant announcements seems to be increasing. A plant that makes metal pellets for use in steel production will be located north of New Orleans on the Mississippi River. This could be the beginning of a major steel production industry. Other plant announcements include a wire plant in Tennessee, a polyvinyl chloride plant and a mobile camper plant in Georgia, two plants for making modular "home components," two apparel plants, and a shoe factory in Alabama. There have also been a number of reports of improved business activity. Shoe plants in Tennessee, Mississippi, and Alabama are expanding employment. A Tennessee manufacturer of pleasure boats indicates that, for the first time, it has orders for all the boats it can produce before model changeover. Another producer of fiberglass boats is reported to be considering occupying an Alabama boat plant that was closed a few months ago. Manufacturers of furniture, appliances, and farm machinery in Tennessee are enjoying the best markets in a long time. A large chemical concern is reported to be seeking employees in Tennessee and initiating overtime. Disney World is beginning to fill 6,000 jobs for October's opening. Defense and aerospace companies near Orlando have evidently started to stabilize employment. Layoffs at the Atomic Energy Commission's Oak Ridge Plant are being scaled down. Inflation remains a concern. One Tennessee banker reports that his bank is fighting inflation by reducing its staff to the bone. Hiring has ceased except when absolutely necessary, and resignees are not being replaced. The 50 to 60 summer employees usually hired will not be hired this summer. Cheaper sources of computer equipment are also being explored. He also reports that other institutions are cutting costs, including a private college that is paring its maintenance staffs and course offerings in order to balance its budget. Price increases continue in real estate and utility rates. One north Florida banker describes land prices as soaring. He claims there is a considerable appetite for any land, regardless of its location or potential profitability. A large Georgia electric utility has requested a 15-percent increase in residential rates and slightly smaller increases in commercial and industrial rates. Telephone and telegraph companies in parts of Georgia and Alabama have requested rate increases.