Recent surveys of businessmen and bankers in the Fifth District indicate general agreement on the following points: (1) in manufacturing, reduced backlogs of orders with slight improvements in shipments and new orders; (2) substantial increases in manufacturing wages; (3) continued improvement in retail sales including automobiles; (4) substantial increases in loan demand, particularly business and mortgage loans; and (5) decreased optimism regarding future business conditions. Improvements reported last month in District manufacturing have continued. Survey respondents indicated an increase in shipments and volume of new orders. Backlogs of orders, after showing a significant improvement in April, declined during May, according to respondents. District bankers and retailers report improved retail sales. According to bankers, however, automobile sales were not up as much as they were in the previous month. Declines in inventories were reported by both manufacturers and retailers. Manufacturers reported a slight improvement in employment. Very few respondents indicated increases in employment, but the number reporting decreases was lower than in the previous period. There was a slight increase in the number of bankers reporting decreases in their areas. District retailers report improvement in the employment situation. Retailing and manufacturing respondents indicated continued increases in prices received. Upward pressures on wages continued, with more than one-half of the respondents in manufacturing and retailing and services reporting increased wage costs. The construction sector of the Fifth District economy continues to be strong. Both residential and nonresidential construction showed substantial improvement in the District during the reporting period. Respondents indicated that the demand for all types of loans increased in May. More than four-fifths of the bankers reporting indicated an increase in the demand for mortgage loans, and more than one-half reported increased demand for business and consumer loans. District cash receipts from farm marketings continue to run below those of a year ago, although the decline is not as great as it was earlier in the year. Total cash receipts during the first quarter were 5 percent below those in the same period a year earlier. An 8-percent decline in livestock receipts more than offset a 7-percent increase in receipts from crops. Although optimism has declined somewhat since the last survey, respondents remain optimistic on balance. Increased activity in construction, both residential and nonresidential, and in retail sales accounts for this guardedly optimistic outlook.