Economic activity is continuing to expand moderately according to reports from bankers and businessmen in the Twelfth District. Some sectors, such as lumber and plywood, are experiencing an expansion in demand, while other industries, particularly aerospace, are facing the prospect of further declines. Consumer spending is a source of support, being generally about 10 percent higher than the same period a year ago. Demand for bank loans is also reported as higher in most areas. Retail sales are growing at a reasonable rate in most areas of the district. There are variations between areas, but a 10 percent gain over last year is common. Part of this increase is due to higher prices, but much is due to vigorous promotional efforts. In the Seattle-Tacoma area, aggressive sales efforts by local department stores have stimulated more buying, despite the continued low level of local business generally. Similarly in southern California, the larger chain stores through heavy promotion are managing to increase sales, while smaller merchants are having difficulty even in maintaining sales levels. Sales of large appliances are showing only a slight improvement, with consumers remaining cautious and buying selectively. Automobile sales reflect this mixed picture. In total, sales are somewhat higher, but not all types of cars are doing equally well. The greatest increases are being registered by domestic compact and foreign cars. In one southern California market, foreign cars make up 40 percent of the total. Full-sized cars are not doing well. In consequence, car sales are described variously as "slow" or "lagging" by some, and as showing a "marked increase" by others. Many buyers apparently have been turning to used cars, for which the demand seems to be quite strong. The construction market is continuing to expand, especially for new residential housing. One Oregon banker described housing as "a bright spot on the horizon." The demand for mortgage loans remains strong, although mortgage rates have risen approximately 1/4 percent, and further rises might occur. Commercial construction is also strong in such areas as San Francisco. On the other hand, rising construction costs caused one large food processing company to hold back on planned capital expenditures. Industrial activity continues to show weakness. In southern California, there is concern over the decline of the aerospace industry. Prospective strikes in the steel, copper, and metal industries are also a dampening influence for some manufacturers. A large oil company has experienced a smaller sales volume in recent months, with lack of demand for gasoline and jet fuels being most important in lowering sales. However, this company expects that the projected recovery of the economy in the second half of this year will stimulate gasoline sales. In contrast, higher lumber and plywood prices have been stimulating the timber industry in Oregon and Washington. Similarly, there are also good prospects in district agriculture. Cattle prices are holding up, and in Oregon the weather has been favorable for most crops. The overall expansion in the economy is apparent in the rising demand for loans. Bankers throughout the district report stronger demand for most categories of loans-business, personal, and mortgage. Mortgage rates are somewhat higher, and many banks report paying higher rates on time deposits in both the CD and open-account categories. Some expect a higher prime rate. Some banks also are taking actions to restrict loans, screening loans more closely and setting more restrictions on future mortgage commitments. Therefore, despite weakness in some areas and industries, demand for finance is higher as a reflection of the gradual expansion of the district economy.