Summary Contacts in the Seventh District indicate that economic expansion is continuing but is less rapid than earlier. Payroll employment through February continued to trend upward in the District states about in line with the nation. Unemployment in the region averaged 5.3 percent of the labor force in February, down nearly to the national average of 5.1 percent after being higher since 1979. However, in March unemployment rose in Illinois and Michigan in contrast with the further national decline. Hiring plans are strong in the Midwest. Chicago purchasing managers surveyed in March indicated that expansion of production, orders, and backlogs continued but was less widespread than last year. This less heated expansion was reflected in prices paid, which showed widespread increases but less so than earlier. Milwaukee purchasers' reports have shown a similar trend over the past year. Higher petroleum prices are boosting costs for industry, transportation, and consumers. Contacts with industrial firms in the District have noted slower increases in orders or shipments for some types of machinery, paperboard, electronics, and rail transport. Others noted continued strength in the industries in which they do business, including industrial chemicals, industrial controls, construction steel, and heavy trucks. A diversified manufacturer with sales growing more slowly indicates that the slowdown is confined to U.S. markets, and that its overseas business is very robust. A minority among our sources indicated an expectation of an imminent U.S. recession. Others are cautious, watching closely for signs of weakness. Farm field work has been slowed by cool spring weather, and there is concern about dry conditions in part of the District. Equipment Reports on equipment markets are diverse, with strength widespread, but some sectors softening. A producer or various types of machinery reported that its commercial machinery backlog is well above a year ago. Major home appliance shipments are at record levels. Demand is brisk for electrical equipment installed in construction projects. Industrial markets for electrical controls and related components are strong though some buyers expect a slowdown in this year's second half. Sales of equipment to utilities are holding up well after being very strong late last year. Demand for locomotives has improved but prospects are viewed very cautiously. Orders for defense machinery have declined significantly. Weakening was reported in light construction equipment, reflecting the housing slowdown. Signs of weakness in markets for material handling equipment were also noted. Petroleum equipment orders are low. Construction Nonresidential construction activity is at a relatively high level in the Midwest. Construction contracts for nonresidential buildings last year were at their peak for this expansion in the District states. Construction activity remains vigorous on office buildings in Chicago's Loop and on industrial structures. Chicago-area shopping centers, mostly in the suburbs, are set to open at a record pace in 1989 and 1990, even though some observers regard the area as already "overstored." Public works construction is expected to rise this year. Residential construction activity is described as still vigorous in the Chicago area. Resales are growing, however, attributed to higher interest rates. Housing prices are up sharply. Mortgage interest rates of 11 percent for fixed-rate loans became more widespread in March. Interest rates on adjustable-rate loans at area lenders climbed considerably in the year to mid-March. Mortgage rates, on average, have edged down since then. Steel Steel production in the District, through early April, was above a year earlier. Orders are also above last year. Demand from machinery manufacturers reflects the continued growth of capital spending. Sales of construction steel are particularly strong, "through the roof," according to one source, at variance with weaker indicators of the pace of construction nationwide such as contracts. Auto and appliance markets for steel are holding up well. Motor Vehicles After another month of lackluster car sales and inventory accumulation at dealers, sales perked up in early April following announcement of enhanced buyer incentives. In addition, assembly plans for the second quarter were revised downward modestly in the past month, though they remain near last year's strong pace. Industry observers speculate that auto makers will stretch out third quarter model changeover shutdowns to pare inventories, though components suppliers reportedly are not seeing indications of this. Truck sales in the first quarter were at a high level but somewhat below 1988's all-time high. Truck production, on the other hand, has been at a record pace. The heavy truck market is strong. General Merchandise Reports from retailers in the District were mixed. One noted that the shift in the timing of Easter, from April 1988 to March this year, renders questionable both comparisons of the latest month with a year earlier, and seasonally adjusted sales. Inventories are regarded as low. Agriculture Spring field work in District states is off to a slower start than in recent years, largely because of cool temperatures. There is considerable apprehension about the continuing drought conditions in much or Iowa and western Illinois. Elsewhere in the District, soil moisture appears adequate for the start of the growing season. In general, however, precipitation patterns over the next few months will be more critical to the development of spring-planted crops than the pattern of the past few months.