Overview The Tenth District economy continues to grow slowly. Retail sales are increasing moderately, though new car sales are down. Manufacturers report higher input prices, but no bottlenecks or labor shortages. The district's energy industry shows few signs of improvement. Housing starts have been relatively weak so far this year, although they were stronger in March. Mortgage demand is mixed at district savings and loan institutions. Loan demand at commercial banks is steady to higher, while deposit performance is mixed. Recent rains have improved the outlook for spring crops, but winter wheat yields are still expected to be below normal. Bankers report generally strong financial conditions among farmers and ranchers. Retail Sales Most general merchandisers report retail sales performance has improved from a year ago and over the last three months, although a few report decreasing sales. Retailers are attempting to maintain margins by passing through wholesale price increases. In the near- term, retail sales are expected to be stable to slightly higher. Inventory levels are mostly satisfactory. Automobile sales are reported to have weakened over the last month. Most dealers are trimming inventories or maintaining current inventory levels. Most auto dealers expect 1989 sales to be at or below 1988 levels. Manufacturing All respondents indicate that input prices are up relative to a year ago, with some increases over the past three months. Prices are expected to stabilize or decrease in the future. Firms report few difficulties in acquiring materials, and lead times have remained steady or declined. Inventory levels are generally satisfactory. Most plants are operating near full capacity, but no bottlenecks or labor shortages are reported. Energy Despite the recent run-up in oil prices, the district's energy industry shows few signs of improvement. Continued uncertainty about the future course of world oil markets has held down drilling activity in the region and nationwide. The average number of active drilling rigs in the district fell from 219 in February to 211 in March, a fourth below the average of one year ago. However, during the first two weeks of April, the district rig count increased to 233. Housing Activity and Finance District housing activity through March is down from a year ago. However, most homebuilders report stronger housing starts in March, a rebound from February's weakness. Single-family construction continues to be stronger than multi-family. New home sales and prices are higher, but the higher prices reflect larger homes being sold. Home inventories are relatively low. Most respondents expect steady housing activity in the near term, and slightly improved activity by year-end. Most respondents from district savings and loan institutions report a net outflow of deposits over the last month. In most cases, net flows of deposits are comparable to a year ago. Respondents' expectations for deposit flows in the near future are mixed, but several expect further outflows if interest rates keep increasing. Respondents report mixed demand for mortgages, with a pickup expected during the summer. Many respondents expect mortgage rates to peak within the next three months and then to decline for the rest of the year. Banking Most district commercial bank respondents report constant or increased loan demand over the past month. The increases were concentrated in commercial and industrial loans and in agricultural loans. About half of the respondents increased both their prime rate and their consumer loan rates by fifty basis points in recent weeks, while the other half reported no change. Only a few banks expect further increases in lending rates in the near future; the remaining banks anticipate no change. Deposit behavior varied both across the district and across types of deposits. Approximately equal numbers of respondents reported increases and decreases in deposits. Decreases were mostly in demand deposits, NOW accounts, and money market deposit accounts. Increases were generally in IRA and Keogh accounts and in small time and savings deposits. Agriculture Recent rains throughout much of the Tenth District improved the district's agricultural outlook, but the rains came too late for much of the winter wheat crop. Continued dry conditions throughout the spring and cold temperatures in February severely damaged much of the crop. Wheat yields are expected to be well below normal in parts of Oklahoma and much of Kansas. Bankers in those areas report that some farmers are plowing under the wheat crop and planting spring crops. In other areas of the district, the recent moisture has allayed fears of losing the wheat crop, although additional rains are needed to assure adequate spring growth. District bankers report most farmers will begin planting spring crops within the next few weeks. The recent rains have contributed to good growing conditions and an optimistic outlook for spring crops, although more moisture will be needed soon. Subsoil moisture remains below normal in many areas of the district; good snowpack in Colorado will help replenish depleted water stocks there. Results of spring credit reviews by district bankers generally reflect strong financial conditions among farmers and ranchers. Most operators had good financial performances both last year and the year before. Given the relatively strong financial conditions of borrowers, most bankers do not feel that their agricultural loan portfolios are at risk, especially if dry conditions affect only the wheat crop and normal weather returns to the rest of the district.