Summary Most sectors of the Eighth District economy continued to improve; however, there are many signs of weakness. Employment rose in all sectors except government and construction. While manufacturing employment rose, recent sales declines of autos and appliances have led to layoffs. District utility companies report increased usage of electricity. Nonresidential construction activity strengthened recently, but home construction and sales remain weak. Across virtually every loan category, except agricultural, first quarter loan volume is well behind that reported a year earlier. Employment District employment rose rapidly in recent months, continuing the strong growth that began last October. Payroll employment in the three months through February grew at a 6.3 percent annual rate, led by double-digit gains in the services, the transportation and communications and the manufacturing sectors. On the other hand, construction employment fell at an 8.2 percent rate in the same period, due to sharp declines in Missouri and Tennessee. Implementation of the military base realignment and closure plan recently approved by the House of Representatives would result in additional jobs at three bases within District boundaries but would cause the eventual closing of a Army ammunition testing facility in southern Indiana, eliminating 400 jobs. Manufacturing Manufacturing employment rose at a 10.8 percent rate in the December-February period with all major industries except electrical equipment producers experiencing gains. The chemicals and transportation equipment sectors posted the sharpest job growth. A St. Louis auto assembly plant temporarily laid off workers for one week in March to reduce auto inventories. Weak refrigerator sales prompted an Arkansas appliance producer to plan layoffs of 200 workers before May 1. Transportation and Utilities During the first quarter, District airports experienced flat or declining passenger travel and cargo shipments compared to a year ago. Barge traffic on the Mississippi and Missouri rivers is near normal despite river levels remaining two to three feet below normal. District utility companies reported that increases in industrial demand for electricity ranged from 0.7 percent to 7.5 percent during the first quarter when compared to the same period a year ago, while increases in commercial demand for electricity ranged from 2.7 percent to 4.7 percent. Construction The value of District nonresidential construction contracts rose 23.9 percent in the three months through February, compared to the three month average ending in November. The value of residential contracts rose moderately during the recent period, but are no higher than a year earlier. In the St. Louis area, first quarter housing permits were down 31.8 percent from a year earlier. A number of "move-up" buyers were prevented from ordering new homes as they were unable to sell their existing homes at their desired prices. Consumer Spending Retail sales of general merchandise have been moderately strong in March and early April in most areas of the District. In Arkansas and Memphis, however, wet and cool weather has hampered sales, particularly of summer clothes and merchandise. Generally, sales have met retailer's expectations, resulting in satisfactory levels of inventories. Sales of shoes, jewelry, and women's apparel have sold particularly well. Agriculture Consistent with farmers' intentions to expand planted acreage, operating loans this spring are considerably higher than a year earlier. April rains have helped drought-stressed wheat crops in northeastern Missouri and yields could be near normal. A heavy freeze in southern District states has damaged fruit and vegetable crops, with peach and fresh tomato growers experiencing the most damage. Consumers will only see small price increases, if any, due to the freeze, as the damaged areas produce less than 2 percent of the nation's peaches, and less than 5 percent of the nation's fresh tomatoes. Banking Total loans outstanding at the 12 largest District banks declined at a 0.7 percent annual rate in the first quarter, a sharp drop from the 5.9 percent rate of increase for the same period in 1988. Commercial loans fell at a 3.5 percent annual rate in the first quarter compared with a 15.5 percent rate of increase for same period last year. Consumer loan volume, which had shown some signs of strength earlier in the year, returned to its sluggish pattern. Real estate lending, spurred by home equity financing, grew at a 13.6 percent rate for the first quarter, slightly less than the rate a year earlier.