First District business contacts generally report year-over-year increases in economic activity, although some--notably in software and information technology services and staffing--indicate the pace of growth is slowing. Retailers mostly say demand is recovering well after weather-related softness during the winter; manufacturing contacts' sales are also ahead of last year. With only a few exceptions, businesses are not hiring much beyond replacement. Aside from food, input prices are generally said to be unchanged, although a few manufacturers have raised their own prices. The outlook is fairly positive, with most respondents expecting the current pace to continue or pick up.
Greater Boston tourism revenues are up after softer performance attributed to harsh winter weather earlier in the year. Through Q1 2013, hotel revenues are up 2 percent year-over-year, and occupancy rates are also up 2 percent. Restaurants revenues are 1.5 percent ahead of a year ago. Much of this increase is attributed to strong domestic and foreign business travel. Attendance at museums and attractions is down, perhaps due to weather affecting leisure travel plans. Boston-area tourism was reduced by the marathon bombings as some groups were forced to reschedule visits.
All of our contacts report little or no pricing pressure on the input side and several say they were able to make price increases stick on the sell side. A dairy firm says food prices are up because of drought conditions, but notes that recent rainfall may change that. Winter storms had some temporary effect on energy prices for some firms.
Five of eight contacts are hiring, although only one is hiring in any significant way and their hiring is outside the U.S. Of the contacts not adding to headcounts, only one is laying off workers; this firm--a maker of parts for machinery--is planning to reduce headcount by 2 percent to 3 percent over the next six months on top of a similar reduction over the last six months.
Six of eight respondents are increasing capital expenditures and one of the others says its expenditures are low only relative to some exceptional investments in 2012. One contact in the electrical equipment business says they have "too much cash" and are looking for investments. Firms cite mixed opportunities to acquire other companies, with one having a "full pipeline" of acquisitions and another saying there is nothing to buy.
Three-quarters of contacts are reasonably optimistic about the outlook. Several who reported some softness in the winter said their customers were talking about demand growing in the second half.
Values for prime downtown Boston properties--including office buildings and apartment buildings--continue to rise, leading to talk of overheating. Investors are purchasing empty retail space in Boston for the first time since the onset of the Great Recession. Continuing a recent trend, investors are increasingly purchasing prime, well-leased commercial properties in Hartford, Providence, and Portland, markets which are seen as value propositions in comparison with higher-priced Boston. So far in the cycle, however, new construction in these markets has been very limited. Commercial real estate loan demand rebounded at one regional lender as competition for such loans drove mortgage interest rates to new lows.
Contacts are mostly optimistic that commercial leasing fundamentals will continue to improve at least slowly in the coming months. The outlook includes upside potential for absorption in Providence, Hartford, and Boston based on deals in progress and current employment trends. In Rhode Island, however, the upcoming gubernatorial election and state and local budget deficits--as well as the defense cutbacks noted above--present downside risks. In Connecticut, negative effects of sequestration on defense-industry tenants seem inevitable, but the commercial leasing implications are uncertain.
Contacts anticipate that single-family home and condo prices will continue to rise over the next several months, with inventory levels a significant factor determining the degree to which sales can grow. Overall, contacts say they feel optimistic about the trajectory of the housing market and believe the market will continue to recover as general economic conditions improve.
