The Eleventh District economy expanded at a stronger pace over the past six weeks than in the previous reporting period. Manufacturing activity increased overall, and many contacts were more optimistic in their outlooks. Retail sales activity improved during the reporting period, and auto sales held steady. In the nonfinancial services sector, demand for accounting services was strong, legal firms reported modest growth, and most transportation services firms noted improvement. Staffing services contacts said demand was steady. The housing sector continued to improve, with further gains in sales and construction. Office and warehouse leasing activity remained steady. Financial institutions noted modest growth in loan demand, and energy activity improved during the reporting period. Drought conditions worsened across the Eleventh District. Prices remained stable at most firms, and employment levels were steady.
Oil prices fell slightly over the reporting period. A late winter brought natural gas inventories back into the seasonally normal range and pushed prices above $4. Gasoline and diesel prices declined since the last report.
Contacts in the high-tech manufacturing industry reported that orders and shipments were flat to slightly improved since the last survey. Respondents who reported a slight improvement in orders said that growth was broadly based across sectors. Inventories were reported to be lean in general and at or near desired levels. Respondents expect demand to improve slightly in the second half of this year.
Paper manufacturers said demand increased to normal levels after the decrease reported in the last report. Contacts are slightly more optimistic. Food producers said demand was about 15 percent higher than last year at this time. One contact noted the successful introduction of new products to schools and said sales in that market were up 30 percent. Inventories were at the right levels for contacts, customers and suppliers.
Transportation manufacturing contacts said orders were steady to up. Outlooks were generally positive, although aviation contacts were more uncertain than in the last report.
Petrochemical producers reported a slowdown in activity since the last report, mostly due to weakness in Europe. Still, contacts remain very optimistic in their outlooks. Refiners said operating rates and margins were up over the reporting period.
Automobile sales were steady over the reporting period, and demand remains above year-ago levels. Contacts are positive in their outlooks for the remainder of the year, although increasing costs were a concern.
Transportation service firms said overall cargo and container volumes increased over the reporting period. Railroad contacts reported notable increases in motor vehicles, petroleum, lumber and wood and crushed stone volumes, while volumes for grain and metallic ores declined. Small parcel shipments picked up, with demand growth led by retail trade. Air cargo volumes were flat both domestically and internationally.
Reports from airline contacts were mixed. Some said demand increased during the reporting period while others noted flat travel demand due to bad weather and reduced demand from the government sector. Outlooks were fairly strong for the near term, but contacts are less optimistic about demand in the longer-term due to sluggish economic growth and fiscal uncertainties.
Contacts in the commercial real estate sector said leasing activity for office and industrial warehouse space continued at a steady pace. Contacts noted a pickup in building activity in the office sector.
