Economic activity in the Eighth District has expanded at a moderate pace since the previous report. Recent reports of planned activity in manufacturing and services have been positive, on net. Reports of retail and auto sales over the past three months have also been positive. Residential real estate market conditions have continued to improve, and commercial real estate markets have also improved. Lending activity at a sample of large District banks was little changed during the first quarter of 2013. Prices, wages, and employment levels over the past three months have stayed the same or increased for a majority of contacts across the District.
Reports from auto dealers about sales in the past three months were generally positive. Fifty-seven percent of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in sales, while 29 percent saw decreases and the rest saw no changes. Fifty percent of car dealers reported an increase in used car sales relative to new car sales, and 17 percent reported the opposite. About 36 percent of respondents reported that their inventories were too high, while 14 percent reported that their inventories were too low. The sales outlook for the next three months was optimistic: 64 percent of car dealers expect sales to increase over 2012 levels, while 21 percent expect sales to decrease.
Reports of planned activity in the District's service sector have also been positive since the previous report. Firms in information technology, financial, distribution, business support, healthcare, engineering, and hospitality services reported new hiring and expansion plans. In contrast, firms in retail and wireless communication services reported plans to reduce employment.
Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have continued to improve moderately. Compared with the fourth quarter of 2012, the first quarter 2013 industrial vacancy rates declined in St. Louis and Memphis and increased in Little Rock and Louisville. During the same period, downtown office vacancy rates increased in Louisville, Little Rock, Memphis, and St. Louis, while suburban office vacancy rates declined in St. Louis and Little Rock and increased in Memphis. Contacts in central Arkansas noted large ongoing retail construction projects. Contacts in Louisville and Memphis reported build-to-suit construction plans for industrial space.
