After many months at a generally more modest pace of growth, aggregate business activity in the Third District has accelerated somewhat to a moderate pace of growth during this current Beige Book period. In particular, the growth rate of residential construction, general retail sales, general services, staffing services, and tourism appears to have accelerated somewhat from a more modest rate of growth to join auto sales and existing home sales at a moderate growth rate. Commercial real estate leasing continued to expand at modest rates, while commercial real estate construction continued to expand only slightly. Manufacturing appears to have declined somewhat after expanding slightly last period. Loan volumes at Third District banks resumed growing slightly across most categories, while credit quality continued to improve. General price levels, as well as wages and home prices, were reported to have increased slightly overall--similar to the last Beige Book period.
The overall outlook for growth has improved slightly since the last Beige Book to anticipate a continuation of the current moderate pace of growth. Despite lingering uncertainties, contacts expressed greater confidence in the underlying strength of the economy, especially as the housing market recovery begins to gain strength. Firms are more comfortable reinvesting where necessary; however, many continue to hold off on major expansion plans of capital and labor until the recovery gains more momentum.
Across all sectors, Third District manufacturers remained optimistic that business conditions will improve over the next six months. One contact from a housing-related manufacturer reported that orders from contractors were 22 percent ahead of last year; still, another stated that "firming in the housing market is key to a more favorable outlook" from his firm's dealers. Overall, firms have somewhat increased their expectations of future hiring and their plans for capital spending since the last Beige Book.
Auto dealers have continued to report a moderate pace of sales growth since the last Beige Book, with some weekly variability. Sales in the Philadelphia market were described as strong. Dealers continued to maintain lean inventories and have retained a positive outlook. However, hiring plans remain tentative and modest; expectations of rising health-care costs further constrain the willingness of dealers to expand their workforces.
Nonresidential real estate contacts continued to report little change in the modest pace of overall leasing activity and slight growth of construction. New office construction remains limited to an occasional build-to-suit client, while most construction activity is related to ongoing demand for industrial warehouse space, multifamily residential units, higher education facilities, and public utility infrastructure. Contacts continue to report the presence of too many firms chasing too few projects, such that margins are squeezed thin on winning bids. Overall, contacts expect slow steady growth but remain optimistic, citing greater prospect activity and a greater willingness to make decisions.
In other sectors, staffing firms have reported strong increases in billable hours--an improvement since the prior Beige Book. Staffing contacts cited no wage pressures and expressed more positive outlooks for future growth. Other service-sector firms reported steady growth and credited the recovering housing markets with strengthening and expanding the base of consumer spending. Firms are hiring, although not aggressively. Overall, service-sector firms remain generally optimistic about future growth.
