Winter tourism finished very strong in northern Wisconsin and Minnesota as snowpack remained into May in some areas. A tourism official in northwestern Wisconsin noted that summer bookings at resorts were strong. Recent hotel occupancy in Billings, Mont., was down somewhat from 2012, but still at high levels compared with the prior few years.
Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the last report. A real estate analytics firm noted that Minneapolis-St. Paul area industrial vacancy rates dropped in the first quarter and are forecast to fall throughout 2013. Residential real estate market activity increased at a solid pace. In the Sioux Falls area, April home sales were up 28 percent, inventory was down 19 percent and the median sale price increased 6 percent relative to a year earlier. Recent home sales were up 16 percent from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was down 28 percent, and median sale prices rose 12 percent. Multifamily vacancy rates in Minneapolis-St. Paul dropped in the first quarter, but are forecast to rise for the remainder of 2013.
Meanwhile, employment levels declined in Minnesota during March and April, partially due to extended winter weather. A Minnesota employment services firm noted that temporary placements in light industrial companies were level during the second quarter after posting strong gains since early 2012. A paper mill in northern Minnesota recently announced 300 layoffs.
Wage increases were generally modest. The professional services survey indicated that respondents on average expect wages and benefits to increase 2 percent over the next 12 months.
Overall prices remained stable, with some exceptions noted. Lumber prices decreased since the last report after making strong gains since October 2012. Gold and silver prices also decreased since the last report. Average Minnesota gasoline prices spiked to $4.34 per gallon toward the end of May, about 85 cents per gallon higher than a month earlier, as major refineries that supply the Midwest closed for maintenance.
