Economic activity in the Second District has continued to expand at a moderate pace since the last report. Price pressures have abated somewhat among manufacturers, though they remain more widespread in the service sector; contacts continue to report that selling prices are steady to up modestly. Labor market conditions continue to improve, and businesses increasingly report difficulty finding well-qualified workers. Retailers report that sales were tepid in April but picked up in early May, and new automobile sales have remained strong. Tourism activity has been mixed but generally robust. Commercial and residential real estate markets have strengthened further since the last report. Finally, credit conditions improved across the board, with bankers reporting increased loan demand, widespread narrowing in loan spreads, and declining delinquency rates across all loan categories.
Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new vehicle sales were robust in April and early May, running well ahead of comparable 2012 levels. On the other hand, sales of used automobiles softened further and are down from a year earlier; this is partly attributed to better deals on new vehicles. Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases remain in good shape.
Tourism activity has been mixed but generally fairly robust since the last report. Manhattan hotels report that business was steady at a strong level in April and picked up in early May; occupancy rates have been roughly on par with a year ago, with room rates up 2 to 4 percent. Bookings for Memorial Day weekend are described as very strong. Albany area hotels indicate a pickup in business in April, with occupancy and room rates rising for the first time since last summer. On the other hand, overall attendance at Broadway theaters remains tepid, running 10-20 percent below a year ago in April and the first three weeks of May; this mainly reflects a reduction in the number of shows running. Finally, consumer confidence in the region has been mixed: The Conference Board's April survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows confidence surging to its highest level in more than a year; however, Siena College's survey of New York State residents shows consumer sentiment little changed in April, at its lowest level since then end of 2011.
Commercial real estate markets across the District have also shown signs of improvement thus far in the second quarter. Manhattan's office market has been particularly robust: vacancy rates are little changed, despite a sizable block of new development coming onto the market; asking rents are up roughly 5 percent over the past year. Elsewhere in the region, office markets are mostly steady to stronger: vacancy rates fell in Long Island, northern New Jersey, Rochester and Albany and were little changed in the Long Island and Buffalo markets. One exception is the Westchester/Fairfield county market, where vacancy rates have risen to a ten-year high, and office rents have been declining. The market for industrial space has been steady to stronger: vacancy rates have declined modestly in the Long Island and Westchester/Fairfield markets and held relatively steady in northern New Jersey and across upstate New York.
The labor market continues to improve gradually but steadily. A growing proportion of business contacts say they are adding workers, except in the manufacturing sector, where employment is reported to be little changed. Two major employment agencies report that hiring activity has been fairly robust, particularly for information technology workers. There is also reported to be fairly strong demand in fields such as auditing and compliance. Large financial firms, typically a major source of jobs in New York City, are reported to be hiring only sporadically. While the temp business remains strong, a growing number of firms are hiring full-time workers. Although qualified job candidates are said to be increasingly hard to find, most employers are still said to be holding the line on compensation, though some are becoming more negotiable.
