Economic activity strengthened modestly across the District, however growth was constrained by softness in manufacturing, federal spending limits, and unusual weather conditions. Retail sales flattened, although auto sales generally remained strong. Business was also strong at most non-retail services firms, but tourism in some areas fell below expectations as a result of an unseasonably cool spring. Banking conditions were mixed; residential mortgage demand increased, commercial lending varied, and competition for business was sharp. Residential real estate prices strengthened. Commercial real estate construction also improved, with positive reports across the District. Heavy rainfall and fluctuating temperatures delayed spring plantings, but forage crops were developing well. In the energy sector, demand continued to shift from coal to natural gas. Labor markets were uneven, although many employers plan to increase hiring in the months ahead. Reports on prices and wages were mixed.
Reports from the tourism industry were mixed. Resorts in Virginia and North Carolina had good growth in bookings, and business was up for full-service conference space. However, unseasonably cool weather reduced weekend stays at a West Virginia resort and lessened weekend traffic on the Outer Banks of North Carolina. A contact in Washington, D.C. said visitor traffic remained consistent, but that some summer activities could be affected by reductions in security staffing under the federal budget cuts. Hoteliers anticipated a solid finish to the summer months, and most had raised rates slightly.
Commercial real estate and construction markets tightened slightly in recent weeks. A commercial Realtor in Charleston, South Carolina said that activity had improved and that he expects nonresidential construction to increase significantly in the next twelve to eighteen months. He also stated that the region is on the precipice of strong growth but will be limited by infrastructure. A source in Richmond expected further improvement in commercial real estate activity during the next year, noting a rise in construction in the Richmond and Hampton Roads regions. According to a contact in West Virginia, more hotels have come online and retail space was absorbed at a faster pace. Leasing there has risen to pre-recession levels, according to one report. With vacancies declining and increased demand for space in many areas, commercial lessors have stopped granting concessions. There is strong demand in the Baltimore corridor for multi-family rentals and purchases, with occupancy rates at 95 percent. Another source said that the Washington, D.C. market was growing with a concentration in rentals, but that there was little speculative building.
Assessments of energy activity were mixed in this reporting period. The coal industry remained depressed and businesses that supplied the industry were negatively impacted. A source in West Virginia said that reduced coal production led to a decline in diesel fuel sales as more heavy equipment was idled. He indicated that natural gas had displaced coal in power plants due to the low price of natural gas and concerns regarding environmental regulatory changes. He noted that some of the decline in domestic coal demand was offset by increased thermal coal exports to Europe.
