The rate of expansion in the Second District's economy may have slowed somewhat since the last report. The latest purchasing managers' surveys continue to show most firms reporting improved to stable conditions, but a smaller share than in recent reports, and some department stores have recently experienced an over-the-year decline in sales. The pace of homebuilding remains slow for the most part, but a pickup occurred in commercial real estate activity. Commercial and industrial loan demand at small and medium-sized banks in the District has been slow to moderate, though a few loan officers reported some strength. Consumer Spending The pattern of sales at District retail stores was quite varied in recent weeks. Two retail chains reported that October sales declined from a year earlier although some improvement occurred as the month progressed. On the other hand, one chain had a large over-the-year gain which was attributed primarily to increased promotionals this year. Reflecting the differing sales results, reactions were also mixed concerning the level of inventories and the ability to meet sales targets. Those retailers with sales below plan and excessive inventories intend somewhat more aggressive promotionals in the weeks ahead, while others anticipate no change in strategy. Most of our contacts reported some pickup in sales of women's apparel from the slow pace earlier this year, and some noted that unusually cool weather spurted outerwear sales as well. With regard to the outlook, retailers are moderately optimistic about the upcoming holiday season but generally do not anticipate large over- the-year gains. Business Activity Recent purchasing managers' reports suggest some slowing of the District's economic expansion occurred in recent weeks. In both Buffalo and Rochester the percentage of purchasing managers reporting improved business conditions declined, and the percentage reporting a worsening increased. Nonetheless, by far the majority of firms-90 percent in Rochester and 85 percent in Buffalo-continue to report stable to improved conditions, and those in the Rochester survey anticipated little change over the next three months. Unemployment rates in the District remain below the national average with October readings of 4.2 percent in New York and 3.9 percent in New Jersey. As was true nationally, rates in the District have fluctuated within a fairly narrow range the past several months. The October-to-October rate decline in New York was virtually the same as the national average, but in New Jersey where last October's rate was already very low, the year-to-year decrease was slight. Few new major projects were announced in the District since the last report. However, western New York was buoyed by some recent developments. Two "upscale" New York City department stores announced plans to make their Buffalo area debut in a new shopping mall now under construction there-further indication of Buffalo's comeback from its earlier loss of several manufacturing firms. In addition, a major supermarket chain plans to open three large superstores in Buffalo and Niagara Falls. Residential Construction and Real Estate The pace of homebuilding in the Second District remains slow for the most part though some upstate New York communities continue to report strength. In the Fort Drum area, for example, builders are busy on both military and nonmilitary housing and activity around Buffalo exceeds the year-earlier level. In most of the District, however, activity has been subdued, with home prices remaining high and the resale market slow as a result. Several plans for affordable and retirement housing have recently been unveiled, though, and these could help reactivate the housing market to some extent next spring. A pickup occurred in District commercial real estate activity recently. During October the midtown Manhattan market experienced its highest level of leasing activity since July 1986, and downtown Manhattan also registered more strength than had been seen since the stock market crash. The pace of leasing activity has also been moderate to good in other parts of the District. However, vacancy rates have shown little change because of a sizable supply of office space coming on line in many areas. Financial Developments Commercial and industrial loan demand at small and medium-sized banks in the Second District is currently reported as slow to moderate, though a few loan officers report some strength. Those who have witnessed a slackening attribute it to seasonal factors and to concern about the economy, particularly the budget and trade deficits. One officer stated that in an environment of uncertainty, borrowers are reluctant to take on additional debt. Most respondents said that the increased level of interest rates in recent months has had little effect on business loan demand. The bankers anticipate that conditions at their banks will hold constant into early next year. Business loan portfolios at these banks currently consist almost solely of short- to intermediate-term loans, the definition of which varies among respondents, but is generally less than five years. Recent changes in the mix of short- versus long-term loans favored the former. All of the respondents stated that their banks had not purchased any of the merger and acquisition loans which are now on the secondary market. One officer commented that the pricing of these loans was not attractive enough to entice smaller banks to learn about the unfamiliar new packages.