Summary Business activity in the Seventh District continues to expand, though several indicators suggest at a less rapid rate than earlier. Chicago purchasing managers report somewhat slower, but still brisk, expansion in October. Indianapolis purchasers indicate stronger growth. Motor vehicle makers are working overtime at several plants to meet demand, but cutting back elsewhere because of slow sales of some models. Markets for heavy equipment and steel remain relatively strong. Further growth is expected next year in capital goods. Construction activity is holding up well, but some slippage is expected in 1989. This year's harvest of major crops is virtually complete in most of the District, and drought losses appear slightly less severe than expected earlier. Labor Markets Increases in payroll employment in the District states during the third quarter were slower than in the first half. Unemployment in the District, higher than the nation throughout the 1980s, has fallen nearly to the national rate. Labor markets have tightened in various regions in the District. Iowa, which experienced sizable outmigration earlier in the decade, now reportedly faces shortages of skilled blue collar and clerical workers. Purchasing Managers A survey of Chicago-area purchasing managers showed continued fairly strong expansion in business activity through October. However, several measures were less robust than in earlier months. Production and backlogs continued to rise but less sharply. Lengthening delays in obtaining deliveries were also less common. Those paying higher prices continued to outnumber, by a wide margin, those paying less (59 percent to 2 percent) but price increases were more widespread n prior months since July 1987. In contrast, an October survey of Indianapolis purchasing managers, conducted quarterly, suggests stronger expansion in the latest period. Motor Vehicles Car and truck sales continue at high levels. However, the somewhat slower pace of car sales in October than in earlier months and ambitious production plans have raised concerns that excessive inventories may accumulate. Manufacturers' sales incentives, now offered continuously, may be enhanced if this occurs. A Michigan plant assembling a slower-selling car model will reduce output and lay off 1,000 employees in January. However, other plants, particularly truck plants, are running flat out and resorting to overtime to meet demand. Machinery and Equipment Markets for machinery continue strong, overall, though demand is softening for some types of equipment. Further increases in spending for capital equipment, particularly heavy capital goods, are considered likely in 1989, with growth expected to be less rapid than this year. Investment is particularly strong in chemical process industries, including petrochemicals and paper, mainly in "debottlenecking" or "incremental" additions to existing capacity. Sizable investments are also reported in steel mills; in printing plants producing newspapers and wrapping paper; and in food processing plants, including bakeries and breweries. Some softening is reported in communications equipment and electronic components. Steel Demand for steel remains strong. Industry shipments in 1988 are likely to outpace last year by 9 percent. Early indications for 1989 suggest a continued high level of steel purchases by motor vehicle, appliance, and machinery makers. Shipments from steel service centers have set records. Upward pressures on steel prices have eased, after sharp increases earlier, but could resume next spring when the industry may again be unable to meet peak seasonal demands. Construction Construction activity in the region appears to be holding up relatively well, stronger than expected earlier, but is likely to decline from recent levels. Contracts for nonresidential building in the five District states, for 9 months, were 1 percent below a year earlier (measured in square feet of floor space). Residential contracts were 9 percent below last year, indicating that future building activity is likely to fall. However, shipments of some building materials, an indicator of current construction activity, have risen this year. Shipments of gypsum board to the District states were 3 percent higher during the first 9 months than a year earlier. Year-to-date cement shipments to the East North Central states were also 3 percent higher. Building activity is vigorous in the Chicago area, particularly Loop office construction, industrial building, and homes. Agriculture Corn and soybean harvests are nearly finished in most District states. The Michigan harvest, slowed by recent rains, is about three-fourths complete. Although badly hurt by the drought, yields are slightly higher than earlier estimates. Corn production in District states is expected by the USDA to be 41 percent below last year's crop, and soybean production is estimated 29 percent lower, both sharper declines than nationwide.