Recent new car and truck registrations in Minnesota were higher than a year   ago. In Montana, vehicle sales remained steady during the past few months,   according to a representative of an auto dealers association.
Winter tourism activity was strong in areas with snow, but lackluster in dry   areas. A Montana ski resort reported that visits were up and reservations were   looking good for the rest of the winter. However, in the Upper Peninsula of   Michigan, activity was soft due to marginal snow conditions. The winter tourism   season got off to a slow start because of a lack of snow in western South   Dakota; recent snowfall should help spur activity, according to an official.
Commercial real estate markets continued to tighten. A major commercial real   estate firm forecast that Minneapolis-St. Paul area office vacancy rates will   dip to 17.7 percent at the end of 2012 compared with 19.1 percent at the end of   2011. The same firm forecast industrial vacancy rates to drop to 9.9 percent   from 11.2 percent. Residential real estate market activity increased. Home sales   in November were up 20 percent from the same period a year ago in the   Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was down 29 percent,   and median sale prices rose 17 percent. In the Sioux Falls area, November home   sales were up 20 percent, inventory was down 14 percent and the median sale   price increased 9 percent relative to a year earlier.
Wage increases were moderate. According to the business outlook poll, 93   percent of respondents expect wages in 2013 to increase no more than 3 percent.   Business contacts in South Dakota and Montana expected to generally increase   wages between 2 percent and 3 percent in 2013 from a year earlier. However, wage   increases in the oil-drilling areas of North Dakota and Montana are expected to   be higher.
Overall price increases were subdued. Minnesota gasoline prices at the end of   December were down about 20 cents per gallon since the end of November and were   about 10 cents per gallon less than a year ago. A Minnesota-based food maker   said it expects ingredient cost inflation of up to 3 percent. Some metals prices   increased since mid-November. According to the survey of manufacturers, 37   percent of respondents expect to increase selling prices in 2013, while 16   percent expect to decrease prices.
