Economic activity in the Second District has shown signs of rebounding since the   last report, as widespread disruptions from Superstorm Sandy largely dissipated.   On balance, the labor market firmed, with manufacturers reporting flat   employment but non-manufacturing contacts indicating some pickup in hiring.   Manufacturers and other firms report more widespread price hikes than in recent   months, while retail prices were steady to up moderately. Retailers report that   holiday-season sales were steady to somewhat higher than this time last year but   slightly below plan. Auto sales in upstate New York were mixed but generally   strong in November and December. Tourism activity slumped in November, in the   aftermath of Sandy, but rebounded somewhat in New York City in December. Both   residential and commercial real estate markets were generally steady since the   last report. Finally, bankers report a pickup in demand for commercial mortgages   but steady demand on other types of loans; they also report no change in credit   standards, narrowing loan spreads, and widespread decreases in delinquency   rates.
Buffalo-area auto dealers indicate that vehicle sales picked up in November   but were expected to be flat to slightly lower than a year earlier in December.   However, Rochester-area dealers report strong sales for both months to end 2012.   Tourism activity slumped in the immediate aftermath of Sandy. Even hotels in the   Albany area were reportedly affected by the storm, as widespread meeting and   conference cancellations pushed down hotel occupancy rates in November. In New   York City, Broadway theaters report that attendance and revenues rebounded after   a deep post-Sandy slump in the first half of November. Still, December   attendance was down 5 to10 percent from a year earlier, while revenues were   little changed. Finally, consumer confidence in the region weakened at year end.   The Conference Board's survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY,   NJ, Pa) showed confidence falling to its lowest level in more than a year, while   Siena College's survey of New York State residents indicated a modest decline.
Office markets were relatively stable in the final months of 2012. A   commercial real estate contact reports that the recovery from Sandy in Lower   Manhattan has been slow, as a number of buildings in the flood zone remained out   of service at year end. More broadly, leasing and sales activity across   Manhattan were sluggish in November but picked up in December. Vacancy rates   have been steady, while asking rents have edged up, led by brisk gains in   Midtown South. Strong demand from the new media and advertising sectors and some   pickup from legal services have offset weak demand from the financial sector.   Elsewhere in the region, vacancy rates were little changed in the fourth   quarter, though asking rents fell noticeably in northern New Jersey.
On balance, labor market conditions firmed in late 2012. While business   contacts in the manufacturing sector report little or no change in employment,   contacts in other sectors note some pickup in hiring. A major New York City   employment agency specializing in office jobs said that while it is difficult to   assess the labor market during the holiday season some continued softness in   labor market conditions is apparent. In particular, financial sector hiring has   remained sluggish, but year-end bonuses are expected to be up moderately from a   year ago. Much of the bonus pay typically distributed in January was reportedly   paid out in December in advance of higher tax rates.
