Business activity in the Fourth District expanded at a modest pace during the   past six weeks. Many of our contacts reported that their outlook for the new   year is uncertain due to unresolved fiscal policy matters. Manufacturing orders   and production were mainly flat or down slightly. Residential and nonresidential   construction activity rose, with particular strength noted in the multi-family   segment. On balance, retailers described the holiday shopping season as solid.   Sales of new and used motor vehicles increased on a year-over-year basis. Shale   gas activity continued at a robust pace, though coal production trended lower.   The slowdown in freight transport volume seen in September and October has   abated. Demand for business credit flattened out, whereas credit use by   consumers picked up.
Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors. Staffing-firm representatives   saw little change in the number of job openings and placements during the past   six weeks. Vacancies were found primarily in manufacturing and healthcare. Wage   pressures are contained. Input prices were stable, apart from increases in   construction materials.
Inventories are being reduced to become more aligned with demand.   Manufacturers noted that capacity utilization has fallen in recent weeks;   however, rates were within or slightly below their normal range. Capital   spending was largely on track for 2012. About one-third of our contacts plan on   cutting back capital outlays during this year, and few producers anticipate   expanding capacity. Raw material prices were either flat or trended lower, while   finished goods prices held steady. On balance, manufacturing payrolls were   little changed. Less than half of our contacts expect to hire new workers during   2013. Wage pressures are contained, and rising health insurance premiums remain   a challenge.
Nonresidential contractors reported that business activity grew across market   segments and was better than a year ago. Nonetheless, margins are still tight.   Although inquiries are down, which is typical for this time of year, builders   are satisfied with their backlogs going into 2013. Project financing is   available, but it is very time consuming to close a deal. As a result, some   developers are turning away from banks and looking more to private lenders. Our   contacts are optimistic about near-term activity due to customers wanting to   complete must-do projects, such as maintenance or production consolidation.   However, there is a heightened level of uncertainly about the medium to long   term. A general contractor reported that his customers are postponing the design   phase of some of their projects. Other builders expect a slowing in health care   construction, as providers evaluate the implementation of recently enacted laws.
Residential and nonresidential builders reported higher prices for drywall   and lumber, due to rising demand and a declining supply base. Contractors   anticipate widespread price increases for building materials during the first   quarter of 2013. General contractors and subcontractors expect to increase their   payrolls at a modest pace this year. There is concern about the availability of   highly skilled trade workers and back-office personnel, and the potential impact   a shortage of either could have on wage pressures.
Year-to-date sales of new motor vehicles showed a moderate increase during   November compared to the same time period a year ago. Dealers reported that   purchases of fuel-efficient cars, including hybrids and compact SUVs, are doing   well. New-vehicle inventories were described as adequate to strong. A seasonal   slowdown in sales is expected during January and February. Several dealers cited   uncertainty over the resolution of fiscal policy issues as a factor that may   affect auto sales in upcoming months. Year-to-date sales of used vehicles   increased slightly during November, though inventories are still tight. Leasing   continued to trend slightly higher, which should help to replenish the   used-vehicle inventory by mid-2013. One dealer noted that the balance between   leasing and traditional financing has returned to normal. Some of our contacts   reported that their employment level is lower than prior to the recession, and   most do not expect to increase payrolls during the next 6 to 12 months.
