Economic activity in the First District continues to grow modestly, according to   business contacts. Most retailers and the tourism industry cite year-over-year   increases in demand. Aside from some firms with industry-specific or   customer-specific issues, First District manufacturers also report growth in   sales from a year ago. Similarly, consulting and advertising firms are ahead of   a year earlier, although a couple of companies with fast growth over the last   few years have recently seen business level off. Commercial real estate contacts   are somewhat downbeat; office leasing is slow and demand for commercial real   estate loans and pipelines for commercial construction activity are weaker than   in recent reports. Residential real estate markets continue to recover, with   both sales and prices in November above year-earlier levels. In all sectors,   most respondents are holding their selling prices level. Contacts say their   hiring depends on demand growth; as a result, most firms are doing little to no   hiring, but some firms are expanding headcounts substantially. Notwithstanding   ongoing concerns with uncertainty, contacts generally expect continued modest   growth in 2013.
The tourism industry ended 2012:Q4 on a high note, establishing new records   for hotel room occupancy rates and revenues. Strong domestic and international   corporate business travel and international leisure travel account for much of   this performance. Restaurants saw less spending on corporate entertaining and   end-of-year holiday events. Advance hotel booking data indicate that the strong   trend in business travel will continue, leading to an expectation that occupancy   rates will hold level in 2013 compared to the high benchmark established in   2012.
Only five of the 11 respondents report significant hiring. Firms with rapidly   growing sales are hiring, but firms in slow-growth industries are not. A biotech   firm with 3,500 U.S. employees plans to add another 1,000 over the coming year,   about half domestically. The computer supplier with customers dependent on   defense spending cut its staffing by 10 percent to 15 percent over the period   from June to September. A contact in the chemical industry reports both good and   bad news about the labor market. On one hand, he says that for the first time   since the crisis began, workers are voluntarily leaving to take new jobs. The   bad news is that he is having great difficulty filling low-skill jobs. He says   that drug test fails are much more common than in the past; in addition, a large   number of workers quit almost immediately after taking the job. The contact   speculates that both of these hiring problems may result from behaviors   developed during extended periods of unemployment.
As with employment, capital spending is generally slow except for firms in   growth industries, with four firms reporting increases and four reporting   decreases in spending. One diversified manufacturer of parts for the aerospace   and auto industries reports that business units within the firm failed to spend   their planned capex allocations in 2012.
The outlook continues to be uncertain for most of our contacts. Only one   firm, the defense supplier, cites the fiscal cliff as a serious problem and even   they expect some resolution in the new year.
Contacts report little to no cost increases and are keeping their prices   relatively unchanged. One exception is an advertising firm where health   insurance costs rose 12 percent in 2012. Some contacts report no hiring,   consistent with a lack of demand growth, while others report net hiring in the   low single digits. Plans for future hiring are modest, with contacts generally   expecting zero to low single-digit workforce increases in 2013.
Most contacts expect growth to pick up in 2013, with the exception of a   government contractor, who is too uncertain about the future of fiscal policy to   offer any forecast. No one expects another recession and overall they express a   sense of cautious optimism.
Most contacts in the region are cautiously optimistic that commercial real   estate fundamentals will improve in 2013. However, growth expectations remain   very modest and some contacts note downside risks to growth from pending fiscal   contraction and ongoing political uncertainty, even taking into account the   recently-enacted federal tax deal.
In terms of outlooks for the coming year, contacts continue to feel positive   about improvements in home values and strong sales. Significant year-over-year   growth in sales is expected for the most of 2013, although a warm winter last   year coupled with a potentially harsher winter this year may soften   year-over-year growth in the coming months. In Massachusetts and the Greater   Boston area, contacts express concern that dwindling inventory levels will   discourage buyers and even potentially deter some sellers who would like to   purchase a replacement home before listing their current one; at the same time,   they express worry about prices appreciating too quickly, but say they are not   concerned with ongoing moderate price appreciation. Notwithstanding these   potential concerns, contacts across the region are generally very optimistic   about the strength of the housing market in 2013.
