Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and based   on information collected on or before January 4, 2013. This document summarizes   comments received from businesses and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve   and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.
All twelve districts reported some growth in consumer spending. Overall,   holiday sales were reported as being modestly higher than in 2011, though sales   were below expectations for contacts in many of the Districts. Auto sales were   reported as steady or stronger in ten Districts. Citing concerns that consumers   will spend cautiously due to ongoing fiscal uncertainty, retail contacts and   auto dealers reported a slightly dimmer, though positive, outlook for future   sales. Tourism activity was reported to have increased across much of the nation   due to strong business and international travel, early snowfall in some ski   areas, and a rebound in areas disrupted by Hurricane Sandy.
Activity among nonfinancial service sectors improved overall. Firms within   the six Districts reporting on transportation services generally noted increased   volumes. Manufacturing was mixed overall since the previous Beige Book; six   Districts reported an expansion of activity and three reported a decrease. Among   Districts reporting on their firms' near-term expectations, the manufacturing   outlook remained generally optimistic; however, capital spending plans were less   uniformly positive.
Since the previous Beige Book, real estate activity has expanded or held   steady in eleven Districts for existing home sales and leasing; eight Districts   for residential construction; eleven Districts for nonresidential sales and   leasing; and nine Districts for nonresidential construction. Overall loan demand   was steady in five Districts, rose in four, and fell in one. Credit standards   were largely unchanged, except in two Districts where there were some signs of   loosening. Six Districts reported improving credit quality and/or falling   delinquency rates.
Although rain partially eased drought conditions for some agricultural   regions in three Districts, reports of agricultural activity remained mixed.   Districts reported that energy and mining sector activity was steady at high   levels for most energy-related products but significantly weaker in coal   production and coal-related investments.
Trends in wages, prices, and employment conditions were relatively unchanged   in the Federal Reserve Districts. Input price pressures were reported to be   steady overall with mixed reports for specific commodity prices in various   Districts. Employment conditions were also little changed since the last report.   However, hiring plans were more cautious for firms doing business in Europe or   in the defense sector. Wage pressures were stable in all twelve Districts,   though several Districts cited greater pressures for firms that reported   difficulties finding qualified workers with specific skills.
Reports of auto sales were steady to stronger in ten Districts. Richmond,   Atlanta, and San Francisco noted strong sales. New York and Dallas cited mixed   sales that were generally positive, while auto sales in Kansas City slowed but   remained higher than a year ago. Some dealers in the Chicago and Kansas City   Districts reported high levels of inventory. Contacts in Philadelphia,   Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas expect consumers to react to ongoing fiscal   uncertainty, thus dimming a positive outlook for future sales. Chicago auto   dealers were more upbeat, expecting stronger new car sales due to pent-up   consumer demand, easing credit conditions, and rising used vehicle prices.
Tourism held steady or grew in all but one of eight reporting Districts.   Coastal activity had fallen in the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Sandy   throughout most of the New York and Philadelphia Districts but has rebounded in   all but the hardest hit areas. Boston, Atlanta, and San Francisco reported   strong tourism in their Districts, with Boston and Atlanta citing business and   international travel as strong contributors. Winter tourism activity in the   Minneapolis District was strong in areas with snow, while Richmond reported   normal winter activity in its District.
Transportation services were generally positive among the six Districts that   reported. Freight transport shipping volume improved in the Cleveland District   due to rising demand from the retail sector and areas affected by Hurricane   Sandy. Atlanta reported increases in trucking tonnage and total railroad   carloads, but low river levels caused delays in Mississippi River traffic.   Reports from transportation services in the Dallas District were mixed, and most   firms expect weak growth in the near-term. Trucking firms in the Richmond   District reported a flattening in revenues; however, the District's port   activity was boosted by ships diverted by Hurricane Sandy.
In contrast to slight declines in the past Beige Book, firms in the   Philadelphia and Minneapolis Districts reported slightly increased manufacturing   activity. As in other Districts, product flowing into supply channels for auto   production and housing construction contributed to Philadelphia's gains. Prior   trends continued as firms in the New York District experienced little or no   growth, except for the revenues of firms in the New York City area that   recovered after Hurricane Sandy disruptions. Reports continued to be mixed among   sectors in the Dallas District.Â
Manufacturing activity within the Cleveland and Atlanta Districts, and   reported plans in the St. Louis District, declined somewhat--a trend reversal   from the prior Beige Book. Contributing to the declines were steel and auto   producers in Cleveland and makers of HVAC equipment, electric components, food,   and automobile parts in St. Louis. Despite production gains in electrical   equipment, appliances, and components, more pronounced contractions within the   broad nondurable goods sector led to a continuation of declining activity in the   Kansas City District.
Manufacturing firms' expectations of future activity were generally   optimistic in the New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Kansas City   Districts; the level of optimism has significantly increased in the Philadelphia   and Atlanta Districts since the previous Beige Book. Contacts in the Chicago   District expect vehicle production to expand in 2013, while reports of activity   from manufacturers in the St. Louis District have been negative on net. Boston   District firms reported that capital spending was slow, except for select growth   sectors. Capital spending was on track in the Cleveland District and was slowly   increasing in the Chicago District. Looking ahead, Philadelphia District firms   have significantly increased their capital spending plans, while the outlook in   the Minneapolis District was reported as flat. In the Cleveland District, more   contacts plan to reduce outlays than expand capacity.
Though a little weaker than residential real estate, reports on sales and   leasing of nonresidential real estate are still mostly positive--described as   modest on average. The Boston District reported a drop in leasing beyond normal   seasonal trends; contacts cited fiscal cliff uncertainty as a factor.   Minneapolis and Kansas City reported increased demand and tightening commercial   real estate markets. Philadelphia, St. Louis, and Dallas all reported more   modest increases in nonresidential real estate activity. Nonresidential   construction is weaker than residential, with only slight to modest growth. The   Boston District reported that demand for commercial real estate loans appears to   be softening and that the pipeline for new construction projects has diminished   significantly since the last report. Dallas reported that construction was   expected to pick up in the commercial real estate sector in 2013.
Banks in the New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, Kansas City, and San   Francisco Districts reported improvements in asset quality. Lenders were   described as competing aggressively for highly qualified borrowers in   Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco. In Atlanta, this stiff   competition may be leading to loosening credit standards, as there was some   indication that banks were more willing to increase their tolerance for risk.   Chicago banks also reported some loosening of standards. On the other hand,   lending standards remained largely unchanged in New York, Cleveland, and Kansas   City.
Activity in the energy sector had mixed reports. Production of oil and   natural gas held steady at high--sometimes record--levels in the Cleveland,   Richmond, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts. San Francisco reported that   activity expanded to historic levels. Contacts in the Cleveland District   reported that shale gas activity grew at a robust pace. In contrast, coal   production has declined in the Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, and   Kansas City Districts since the previous Beige Book. Firms in the Atlanta   District continue to plan investments, ranging from reserve development to   increased refining and petrochemical operations to new pipeline infrastructure.
For those Districts that reported, wage pressures have been stable since the   previous Beige Book and were most frequently described as contained or subdued.   The San Francisco District reported modest wage pressures that were held down by   an abundance of workers. The Richmond, Chicago, and Minneapolis Districts   characterized wage growth as moderate. Specifically, business contacts in the   Minneapolis District expected to increase wages 2 to 3 percent in 2013, while   oil drilling companies in North Dakota and Montana expected higher increases.   Several Districts reported wage pressures in sectors experiencing labor   shortages, such as energy and IT. The New York and Chicago Districts reported   higher year-end bonuses ahead of anticipated tax increases in 2013.
Overall, input price pressures appear to be stable. The Boston, Philadelphia,   Cleveland, Richmond, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts reported   steady input prices, while Chicago reported decreasing raw materials prices. The   New York, Atlanta, and Kansas City Districts characterized input prices as   slightly increasing; price pressures in these Districts were passed through to   consumers somewhat in the form of higher finished goods prices. However, Chicago   noted that businesses were unable to fully pass on meat and milk price increases   to consumers. The Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, Kansas City, and San   Francisco Districts all cited rising prices for construction-related materials.   Specifically, a Philadelphia builder noted that over the past 90 days these   rising prices added about 3 percent to the cost of a new home.

