Twelfth District economic activity expanded at a modest pace during the   reporting period of mid-November through December. Upward price pressures were   limited overall, and upward wage pressures were quite modest. Sales of retail   items this holiday season were similar to or up slightly from last year, and   most business and consumer services gained. District manufacturing activity was   mixed across sectors but generally appeared to move up. Demand for agricultural   products increased, and extraction activity rose for providers of energy   resources. Housing demand trended up further, and conditions were largely stable   for commercial real estate. Contacts from financial institutions reported that   loan demand was unchanged or up somewhat, and credit quality improved.
Contacts in most sectors reported that upward wage pressures were modest.   Limited hiring plans and ready worker availability in most sectors and regions   have held down increases in wages and compensation. However, wages increased for   some information technology workers who possess advanced skills and are in low   supply. The market for technically trained workers for the petroleum industry   remains tight. A few contacts expect wage hikes in 2013 in response to the   expiration of multiyear, company-wide salary freezes. Health-care benefit cost   increases are expected to accelerate and outpace wage increases.
Demand for most business and consumer services rose. Contacts pointed to   solid sales of various technology services, due mostly to typical year-end   business spending increases. Revenues continued to expand for food service   providers. Tourism and travel activity in the District was robust, with strong   growth of visitor counts and spending reported in both Hawaii and Southern   California. However, demand for health-care services remained relatively weak,   with some reports of consumers continuing to opt out of elective procedures and   health-care providers having excess capacity.

