The Tenth District economy expanded modestly in November and December. After a   strong start to holiday shopping, retail sales remained solid as the holiday   season progressed and vehicle sales remained higher than a year ago.   Manufacturing activity, while above year-ago levels, eased further, especially   in the non-durable goods sector. Although energy activity remained historically   high, both oil and natural gas rig counts dropped and District contacts expected   further declines in the coming months. Residential and commercial real estate   markets strengthened as prices and sales trended up and inventories declined.   Bankers also reported strong demand for both residential and commercial real   estate loans. Historically high crop prices supported crop sector incomes, and   livestock profits improved with an uptick in livestock prices. Wage pressures   remained subdued except for the ongoing need to fill specialized positions in   energy, high-tech, transportation, and construction industries. Numerous   business contacts noted they were delaying hiring plans due to economic   uncertainty associated with the fiscal cliff and potential policy changes.
Consumer spending edged up in November   and December, and sales expectations softened heading into the new year. Retail   sales rose since the last survey period but retailers expected less growth after   the holiday season. Several store owners noted that lower-priced items and home   furnishings sold particularly well while sales of high-end items remained   sluggish. Auto sales slowed but remained higher than a year ago and some dealers   noted undesirably high inventory levels. Near-term sales expectations also eased   but generally remained positive. Hotel traffic fell sharply and occupancy rates   were substantially below last year's levels. Although tourist activity picked up   somewhat, visitor counts remained well below a year ago and were not expected to   improve in the near-term. Despite slightly better sales and higher selling   prices, restaurant owners turned pessimistic about future sales growth as food   costs mounted. Numerous contacts pinned their less positive outlook for future   growth on uncertainty associated with the fiscal cliff that was inhibiting   consumer spending.
Manufacturing   activity eased since the last survey period, particularly in the non-durable   goods sector. Factory production retreated to year-ago levels after a more   pronounced contraction in non-durable goods activity trimmed production over the   past month. The relative strength of durable goods activity was supported by the   production and sales of electrical equipment, appliances, and components.   Manufacturers expected generally stronger activity over the next six months.   Factory managers at non-durable goods plants, however, were more optimistic   about future activity than their peers at durable goods plants with stronger   expectations for production, shipments, and new orders over the next six months.   Despite a potential rebound in manufacturing activity, factory employment was   not expected to rise, with some manufacturers noting that they were delaying   hiring plans because of uncertainty in tax and regulatory policies. High-tech   service firms expected robust sales and capital spending over the next three   months. With railroad traffic continuing to rise and flat sales expectations at   transportation service firms, backlogs and capital spending remained solid.
Residential and commercial   real estate sales accelerated since the last survey period despite some weakness   in new residential construction. Persistently strong sales of existing   residential homes drove prices higher as home inventories continued to fall.   Real estate contacts noted that low- to mid-priced homes continued to sell well.   Overall mortgage activity and refinancings remained higher than a year ago   although expectations for the coming months edged down. Despite recent strength   at construction supply firms, sales deteriorated unexpectedly over the past   month due partly to higher selling prices. Builders noted that surging lumber   and drywall costs led to fewer housing starts in November and December.   Commercial real estate markets also improved substantially since the last survey   period. Vacancy rates continued to fall with a notable improvement in sales,   absorption, and rents, although some contacts noted that economic uncertainty   hindered activity. Rising commercial real estate prices were expected to persist   in the coming months, but contacts expected a slower pace of both sales activity   and absorptions.
Drought continued to impact crop conditions   and livestock profits improved with higher livestock prices and lower feed   costs. District winter wheat conditions remained relatively poor due to   persistent drought. The drought also caused water levels on the Mississippi   River to fall further, hindering commodity transportation to and from   agricultural regions. Still net farm incomes remained high due to historically   high crop prices and crop insurance payments. Livestock profit margins also   improved over the past six weeks due to a post-harvest decline in crop prices   and rising livestock prices. District contacts noted a surge in land sales,   sparked by concerns of tax policy changes in the new year.
District energy activity contracted in November   and December and was expected to slow further in the coming months. The number   of active oil rigs in the District eased from the previous survey period despite   a year-end uptick in crude oil prices. The number of active natural gas rigs   declined as high supplies of natural gas in storage kept prices from rising due   to winter heating needs. Energy contacts expected steady demand to stabilize oil   prices and the current oversupply of natural gas to push prices lower. Wyoming's   coal output dropped in December and annual production fell moderately short of   year-ago levels. District ethanol production remained steady and profit margins,   while still poor, improved slightly with easing corn prices.
