Tourism activity was at normal winter levels in recent weeks, and rate   changes were modest. In addition, a D.C. contact commented that restaurant   bookings were brisk for holiday meals and events. An executive at a Virginia   resort area said that his rentals were filled up for the week from Christmas   through New Year's Day. A source on the outer banks of North Carolina reported   somewhat less tourism activity, compared to a year ago because of lingering road   problems caused by Hurricane Sandy.
Reports were mixed on commercial real estate and construction markets in the   District. While a few contacts reported modest improvement in activity since our   last report, others noted flat activity or modest declines. A developer in the   Carolinas said that absorption rates in the office sector tightened in the   downtown Charlotte area, but vacancies in suburban areas remained elevated. In   contrast, a real estate representative in Virginia indicated that office park   absorption rates in the Roanoke suburbs were good, with ninety percent occupancy   rates, which he attributed to new medical facilities. However, he noted that   vacancies in the downtown area were considerably higher. Most sources also   mentioned tightening of available office space, especially among Class A   properties, due to lack of new construction. A Charlotte Realtor stated that   leasing rates in the industrial sector continued to decline this year and noted   little new development in the retail sector. Moreover, several realtors reported   that rental rates were soft, noting that it was a "tenant's market." However,   all contacts were in agreement that concessions were decreasing.
Although conventional oil and natural gas production held steady at high   levels, the rig count fell in West Virginia. Cushioning the fall, many companies   continued to drill in order to get wells in place before permits expired. In   contrast, coal production fell last year due to lower demand from domestic   utilities and offshore customers, idling many mines. One coal producer   attributed the depressed coal market to stricter regulations coupled with lower   natural gas prices, as well as a weaker economy both in the United States and in   Europe.
