The economy of the Eighth District has grown at a modest pace since our previous   report. Recent reports of planned activity from service firms have been   positive. In contrast, reports of planned activity from manufacturing firms have   been negative on net. Residential real estate market conditions have continued   to improve, and commercial and industrial real estate conditions have also   improved in some areas. Total lending at a sample of small and mid-sized   District banks decreased slightly from early September to mid-December.   Agricultural conditions in the District have been mixed since our previous   report.
Reports of planned activity in the District's service sector have been   positive since our previous report. Firms in electric power generation, food   services, business support services, and information services announced plans to   hire new employees and construct new facilities. In contrast, firms in medical   services and in financial services reported plans to lay off workers. Retail   contacts in Louisville reported the opening of several new facilities, and an   auto dealer group is expanding operations in the Memphis area. Retailers in   Memphis reported increased sales on an annual basis, and auto dealers in Little   Rock and Louisville also reported increased sales for the year.
Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have improved in some   areas of the District. Contacts in the Memphis metropolitan area noted that   commercial and industrial real estate activity remained stable. A contact in St.   Louis noted that office space leasing activity improved in the downtown area,   while a contact in Louisville noted strong suburban office space leasing   activity. Commercial and industrial construction activity continued to improve   throughout most of the District. Contacts in Louisville noted plans for   speculative industrial construction in Jefferson County, Indiana, and several   industrial construction projects in southern Indiana and in Bullitt County,   Kentucky. A contact in Little Rock reported new commercial construction projects   in southwest Little Rock. Contacts in Memphis reported a number of ongoing   health care construction projects in the downtown area. A contact in St. Louis   reported commercial construction plans in the Dogtown neighborhood and that an   automobile assembly plant expansion is under construction in Wentzville.
