Aggregate business activity in the Third District has resumed the modest pace of   growth that was evident prior to the disruption by Hurricane Sandy during the   previous Beige Book period. In particular, general retail sales, general   services, and commercial real estate leasing recovered from temporarily mild   growth rates to resume their previously modest growth rates. Sales of new and   used autos accelerated to a moderate rate of growth, and residential real estate   sales maintained a strong year-over-year growth rate (from a relatively low   base). Mild rates of growth are once again evident in manufacturing, staffing   services, transportation services, and construction after many sectors suffered   storm-related disruptions. Lending volumes at Third District banks also   continued to experience slight growth, and credit quality has continued to   improve. Overall, beach-going tourist areas are experiencing a typical slow   season; however, some storm-damaged areas have lost significant business while   some areas that escaped the damage are doing well. General price levels, as well   as wages and home prices, were reported to have increased slightly overall. This   remains similar to the last Beige Book period, except for home prices, which had   remained flat overall.
The overall outlook for at least modest growth is considerably more   optimistic relative to the views expressed in the last Beige Book. Contacts   reported underlying strength in many sectors and expressed relief that part of   the fiscal cliff dilemma has been resolved. Contacts from virtually all sectors   reported greater expectations of future growth than during our last survey   period. Plans for future hiring were also significantly more expansive. Most   contacts continued to express concerns over the impact from the recent payroll   tax increase and the remaining potential budget cuts that might reduce demand.
Optimism among Third District manufacturers that business conditions will   improve during the next six months has rebounded strongly since the last Beige   Book and is evident across nearly all sectors. Firms have also significantly   raised their overall expectations of future hiring and their plans for capital   spending since the last Beige Book.
Auto sales finished the year at a moderate pace of growth--combining the   sector's slower pre-storm pace with a bump up for replacement of cars damaged by   the storm. In particular, New Jersey dealers reported strong double-digit   December sales, capping a third consecutive year of sales growth. The outlook   among dealers remains positive; however, prospects for 2013 are not as strong as   they were for 2012. "Consumers will feel a pinch" from the payroll tax increase   and continued uncertainty about possible budget cuts.
Nonresidential real estate contacts reported renewed modest growth in overall   leasing activity and continued slight growth in construction. Leasing activity   finished the year with sustained double-digit growth. Notably, in the fourth   quarter, contacts began "to see a re-emergence of leasing demand in lagging   submarkets" (in the Greater Philadelphia metro area), including southern New   Jersey. Stronger employment growth of professional services is credited with   much of the demand; however, that demand is partially offset, as existing firms   are consolidating and adjusting to more efficient overall office spaces with   smaller square footage per person. New construction of large   industrial/warehouse space is planned in 2013 in the Harrisburg–Lehigh Valley   corridor on the heels of similar spaces built this year; no such construction is   anticipated in the southern New Jersey market area. New apartment/condominium   projects continue to emerge throughout the Greater Philadelphia region,   especially in Center City. Nonresidential real estate contacts retain an outlook   of slow, steady growth.

