
Sixth District business contacts indicated that economic activity continued   to expand at a very subdued pace in July and August. Retail sales grew more   slowly than during the previous reporting period, although tourism activity   remained solid. Existing home sales improved in Florida, but were weak elsewhere   in the District. New home sales and construction were soft and downward pressure   on prices persisted for both existing and new homes. Contractors reported low   levels of commercial development. Manufacturing contacts indicated that the   level of production and new orders increased, but at a slower pace than   experienced earlier in the year. Bankers noted ongoing weakness in loan demand   as both consumers and businesses were restrained in their borrowing activity.   Most businesses continued to be cautious regarding adding permanent staff, with   several indicating that they had chosen to hire temporary or contract workers to   fill immediate labor needs. Contacts reported that on average, sales prices were   up slightly from a year ago, although some retailers mentioned that weak sales   were prompting them to lower prices. Energy contacts indicated plans to increase   oil production capacity.
Tourism activity remained robust in the District. Hospitality industry   reports cited increases in occupancy and room rates. Airport traffic was up,   particularly in South Florida, which serves as a point of entry for cruise line   travel as well as international travel from Latin America. Although some   companies noted that the softer economic climate has led to a decline in advance   bookings from business travelers, the overall outlook among contacts remained   strong for the coming months.
District builders reported that new home sales and construction activity were   similar to year earlier levels. New home inventory levels declined somewhat, but   builders noted downward pressure on new home prices nonetheless. Residential   contractors indicated that home improvement construction improved from earlier   in the year. Compared with the June report, builders' outlook weakened somewhat   with the majority of contacts expecting new home sales growth to be flat over   the next several months and construction to be similar to last year's weak   levels.
Commercial contractors signaled that nonresidential construction was slow,   although activity in the healthcare sector continued to be positive. Contacts   reported aggressive bidding by contractors and subcontractors. On the leasing   side, firms noted that the absorption of space had slowed somewhat in recent   weeks. Overall, the outlook for construction and leasing activity weakened   somewhat from previous months.
Railway firms cited increased capital expenditures, above-trend plans to   hire, and strengthening exports--particularly coal. Trucking contacts expressed   continued labor supply issues and elevated fuel costs, and have also projected   demand for the remainder of the year to be somewhat softer than previously   anticipated.
Pricing information was mixed. Contacts reported that on average, sales   prices were up slightly from a year ago, although some retailers mentioned that   weak sales were prompting them to lower prices. Fewer manufacturers reported   higher input prices than in previous months. Firms noted that they continued to   face cost pressures, particularly from high materials and freight costs.
While most of the District continued to experience varying degrees of drought   conditions, recent rains have provided relief to some of the region's stressed   pastures and crops. Cotton prices were up compared with last year but have   fallen from record highs. Peanut producers expect prices to increase as supply   from areas outside of the District becomes constrained as a result of adverse   weather.
