
Economic activity in the Fifth District slowed since our last report.   Manufacturing activity pulled back markedly in August, following a sluggish   July, and retail sales weakened. Residential construction and housing sales   declined further, while commercial real estate activity was mixed. Banking   activity was also mixed, with some commercial lenders citing some improvement   but mortgage bankers reporting continued weakness. In contrast, activity at   non-retail services firms edged up. After earlier improvements, coastal   hoteliers watched their guests flee as Hurricane Irene approached. However,   inland hotel managers reported no change in their solid bookings. Labor markets   were mixed; while temp services reported some improvement, employment remained   nearly flat at manufacturing establishments. Price pressures in the District   edged higher over the last month. Manufacturing prices paid and received   accelerated, while prices in the service sector picked up slightly. Finally,   recent precipitation improved agricultural conditions in most parts of the   District, although Hurricane Irene damaged coastal crops.
Commercial real estate activity since our last report was mixed across most   segments of the market. Virtually all contacts described market conditions as   remaining weak, in terms of both leasing volumes and rental rates. While a   Realtor in South Carolina reported that activity had picked up over the last few   months, gains were mostly due to consolidations and renewals that often occurred   at reduced lease rates. A Realtor in North Carolina noted that leasing   incentives were still being offered aggressively in local markets. An agent in   the D.C. area said that renewals often required owners to offer significant   improvement packages. In contrast, a real estate agent in West Virginia remarked   that further softening of lease rates was constrained by the limited amount of   vacant space in the area. Most retail leasing activity in the District was   limited to national chains, according to several contacts, in part because   financing remained an obstacle for small retailers. Contacts generally noted   that greater uncertainty about the market and the economy had pushed clients to   prefer leasing over buying. One contact stated that sales to leases had recently   fallen from a typical one-to-four ratio to one-to-fifteen.
