
Economic growth in the Second District has remained sluggish since the last   report. While it is too early to assess the full effects of Hurricane Irene,   initial reports suggest widespread disruptions and local pockets of more extreme   stress from flooding and power outages. Transportation and other infrastructure   apparently sustained limited damage. Prior to the hurricane, business contacts   in the manufacturing sector noted steady to weakening activity. Retail sales   were reported to be up modestly from a year ago in recent weeks, while tourism   activity has remained strong. Commercial real estate markets have shown some   signs of improvement since the last report: both office and industrial markets   have been steady to slightly stronger. The residential purchase market has been   stable, while the rental market has continued to strengthen; new home   construction remains very sluggish. Finally, bankers report reduced demand for   consumer and commercial & industrial loans, widespread increases in   household delinquency rates, and some tightening in credit standards for   commercial & industrial loans and commercial mortgages.
Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales weakened in July and were   mixed in early August. Rochester-area dealers note continued weakness in new   vehicle sales in recent weeks, which have been running somewhat below 2010   levels, reflecting continued Japan-related supply disruptions and a lack of   incentives. However, dealers in the Buffalo area report some firming in sales   activity in early August, following a sluggish July. Auto dealers in both areas   indicate that used car sales remain strong and that used car prices continue to   be buoyed by strong demand and lean inventories. Auto-industry contacts note   that both retail and wholesale credit conditions are good.
Consumer confidence remains mired at low levels. Siena College reports that   consumer confidence among New York State residents slipped to a 10-month low in   July, with declines in both upstate and the New York City area. The Conference   Board indicates that consumer confidence among residents of the Middle Atlantic   states (NY, NJ, PA) was little changed in July and was near the middle of its   range over the past year. Tourism activity in New York City remained robust in   July and early August. Manhattan hotels report that total revenue per room was   running 7 to 8 percent ahead of a year ago in July and appeared to be up roughly   10 percent in August (prior to the hurricane). Most of the increase has come   from rising room rates, as occupancy rates have been holding relatively steady   at high levels. Broadway theaters also report sturdy gains in both attendance   and revenues since the last report, despite a mid-July lull. Theaters closed for   most of the final weekend in August because of Hurricane Irene, but were due to   reopen the following Monday. Businesses in the popular vacation areas along the   Long Island and New Jersey shores were widely affected by hurricane-related   evacuations.
More broadly, non-manufacturing business contacts across the   District report that business conditions have deteriorated in recent weeks and   indicate waning optimism about the near-term business outlook. They continue to   report steady to rising employment levels, with a majority expecting employment   to level off in the months ahead. Non-manufacturing firms report that cost   pressures remain fairly widespread, though somewhat less so than in recent   months; further increases in input costs are expected in the months ahead.   Selling prices, however, remain steady.
Manufacturing firms in the District report that business activity weakened   moderately in July and early August and that price pressures have continued to   recede, based on the latest Empire State Manufacturing Survey. Contacts report   steady employment levels, and expect this to continue over the next six months.   Overall, though, manufacturers are now less optimistic about the near term   outlook than they have been in quite some time.
