
Since the last Beige Book, business activity in the Third District has been   more mixed and somewhat weaker overall. Several sectors have continued to report   slow, steady growth, and a few sectors have grown faster, while others have   shifted to reporting slower growth, no growth, or declines. Manufacturing   activity has declined since the last Beige Book. Year-over-year sales fell   slightly for general retailers and increased slightly for auto dealers. On   balance, bank lending has remained mostly flat. Residential real estate and   construction was perhaps most impacted by stock market volatility--showing signs   of strength at July's end, then slowing to an unseasonably quiet August.   Commercial real estate contacts have reported steady to slightly improved market   conditions in most parts of the Third District since the previous Beige Book.   Generally positive results were reported by service-sector firms. Upward price   pressures from food, energy, and other commodities have lessened somewhat. The   ability to pass along costs remains mixed, and there is little evidence of wage   pressure.
In response to ongoing uncertainty, Third District business contacts have   slightly lowered their expectations, with most firms projecting slow to flat   growth for the remainder of the year. Manufacturers forecast a small rise in   shipments and orders during the next six months. Retailers are hopeful for   stronger sales; auto dealers are uncertain. Bankers have lowered their   expectations, as have most residential real estate contacts. Commercial real   estate contacts and service-sector firms have continued to expect slow growth;   however, uncertainty has increased.
Although the outlook among Third District manufacturers remains somewhat   optimistic, it is not as promising as was reported in the last Beige Book. Among   firms contacted, two-fifths expect increases in new orders and shipments over   the next six months, while one-fourth expect decreases. About one-fourth of the   firms polled project increases in capital spending over a six-month planning   horizon--a slightly lower proportion than in the last Beige Book.
Commercial and industrial real estate contacts have offered mixed reports in   the Third District since the previous Beige Book. Few reported any interruption   in the normally slow August activity due to financial market volatility. Slow,   steady growth was observed with vacancy rates generally falling, rents steady or   occasionally rising, and concessions steady or occasionally falling. Demand for   residential rental properties has been generating the most new business as   reported by architecture, engineering, and property management firms. Several   contacts also noted activity finally re-emerging from the life sciences sector.   The outlook expressed by market participants is for continued slow growth in   nonresidential real estate.
