
The economy of the Eighth District has continued to grow at a modest pace   since the previous report. Manufacturing activity has continued its increase   since the previous report, and activity in the services sector also has   increased. Retail sales in July and early August declined slightly over   year-earlier levels, and auto sales increased over the same period. Residential   real estate market activity has continued to decline. Commercial real estate   market conditions were weak, while industrial real estate activity has increased   in many areas of the District. Overall lending at a sample of large District   banks increased modestly during the three-month period ending in July.
Car dealers in the District reported that sales in July and early August were   up, on average, compared with last year's sales. About 62 percent of the car   dealers surveyed saw increases in sales, while 21 percent saw decreases and 17   percent saw no changes. About 29 percent of the car dealers noted that used car   sales had increased relative to new car sales, while 21 percent reported the   opposite. Also, about 17 percent of contacts reported an increase in sales of   low-end vehicles relative to high-end vehicles, while 4 percent reported the   opposite. About 83 percent of the car dealers surveyed reported that their   inventories were below desired levels, while 4 percent reported that their   inventories were too high. The sales outlook for September and October was   mostly optimistic: About 67 percent of the car dealers expect sales to increase   over 2010 levels.
Activity in the District's services sector has continued to increase since   our previous report. Firms in scientific research, business support, health   care, aviation, and automotive repair and maintenance services announced plans   to expand operations and hire new workers. In contrast, a contact in the parking   garage services industry reported plans to decrease operations in the District   and lay off employees.
Commercial real estate market conditions were generally weak, while   industrial real estate activity increased in many areas of the District.   Compared with the first quarter of 2011, second-quarter 2011 suburban office   vacancy rates increased in St. Louis and Louisville but decreased in Little Rock   and Memphis. The downtown office vacancy rates increased in Little Rock,   Memphis, and St. Louis but decreased in Louisville. During the same period,   industrial vacancy rates decreased in all the major metro areas except St.   Louis, where rates increased. Industrial and commercial construction activity   has been mixed across the District, with some areas noting growth in industrial   construction. A contact in south-central Kentucky noted several new   retail-related construction projects, while contacts in Louisville reported very   slow speculative construction activity. A contact in southern Indiana reported   that while major commercial construction remains very slow, energy as well as   industrial construction is expanding. Contacts in St. Louis reported that   industrial and commercial construction projects remain scarce, while contacts in   western Illinois noted major education-related construction projects.
