
The Eleventh District economy grew at a modest pace since the last report.   Reports from manufacturers were mixed, and activity in the services sector rose   slightly. The single-family housing sector remained weak, but activity in the   multifamily sector was strong and the commercial real estate sector saw   continued improvement. Financial services respondents said overall loan demand   was flat during the reporting period. The energy industry continued to expand at   a robust pace, while agricultural conditions deteriorated further in the   District. Employment levels were stable at most responding firms and price   pressures were unchanged. Numerous contacts said stock market volatility,   declining consumer confidence and uncertainty regarding national economic   conditions had dampened their outlook.
The price of WTI fell from near $100 per barrel in early July to $85 at the   end of the reporting period in late August. Natural gas, gasoline and diesel   prices fell since the last report, and prices for most petrochemical products   were flat or down. Labor Market Most responding firms reported steady employment   levels, and some noted slight hiring activity. Staffing firms continued to see   steady demand at high levels. Most transportation equipment, food and metals   manufacturers reported an increase in payrolls, and some said they had increased   work hours as well. A few contacts at legal services, auto sales, energy, and   transportation service firms reported modest employment increases. Wage   pressures remained minimal, although upward pressure was noted by one   transportation equipment manufacturer.
Respondents in high-tech manufacturing report that growth in sales and orders   weakened since the last report. Demand for basic memory products such as DRAM   has weakened, while continued growth in demand for servers to store and process   data has kept orders for microprocessors growing at a solid pace. Slow growth in   Asia and increased uncertainty about the European and US economic outlooks has   reduced business investment in high-tech products. The outlook for the next   three to six months is for weak but positive growth.
Paper manufacturers reported that demand growth softened slightly during the   reporting period, but remained better than last year's levels. Manufacturers of   transportation equipment reported strong sales with demand flat to up since the   last report and well above year-ago levels. Outlooks are optimistic, with   contacts expecting demand to hold steady at current high levels over the next   few months. Food producers reported a seasonal uptick in demand, but noted that   they had seen a significant decline in overall sales compared with earlier in   the year.
Petrochemical producers reported that after about six months of extensive   plant outages, shortages of key materials, and dramatic price increases, resin   and plastics markets have settled. Contacts said demand for most products   remained good since the last report, with the exception of PVC products due to   weak construction markets. Refiners said capacity utilization rates were the   highest since 2007, and margins were strong based on good demand. Orders for oil   products slipped in July, but strengthened again in August, according to   contacts.
Automobile sales continued to improve, and contacts say supply issues from   Japanese manufacturers should resolve by the end of September. Demand for used   cars remained high, along with their prices. Contacts were optimistic and expect   sales to increase through year-end.
Reports from transportation service firms were mostly positive, but suggest   that uncertainty surrounding the national economy has somewhat weakened   outlooks. Intermodal cargo volumes increased since the last report. Railroad   shipments rose slightly, with particularly strong volume growth in metallic   ores, petroleum products and non-commercial building products. Container volumes   declined during the reporting period, and contacts reported a weaker outlook   than during the earlier reporting period. Small parcel shipments rebounded in   August after declining in July, in part due to growth in retail trade activity.   Airline traffic held steady over the past six weeks. Demand for travel within   the US and to Latin America was solid, but travel to Asia and Europe remained   weak. Airline contacts expect to see modest improvement in revenues in the   fourth quarter.
Apartment demand was strong during the reporting period, and rental rates   continued to rise. Contacts also noted increased sales of apartment properties.   Leasing activity for office and industrial space continued at a moderate pace   since the last report. Contacts noted strong demand in Houston stemming, in   part, from energy activity.
