
The economy in the Fourth District grew at a slow pace during the past six   weeks, with many of our contacts downgrading their near-term outlooks.   Manufacturers reported stable production but a decline in new orders and   backlogs. Freight transport volume trended slightly higher. Retailers said that   their sales were on or ahead of plan and new-car purchases increased. Energy   companies noted little change in output. New-home construction remains sluggish,   and inquiries made to nonresidential builders have dropped off. The demand for   business credit picked up, while consumer lending was weak.
Modest increases   in payrolls were mainly limited to the manufacturing and energy sectors.   Staffing-firm representatives noted moderate growth in the number of new job   openings, with vacancies concentrated in technical occupations and healthcare.   Almost all openings were for experienced workers. Wage pressures are contained.   Prices for raw materials used by manufacturers and construction materials have   generally stabilized or declined slightly.
Manufacturers remain committed to their capital spending plans for 2011, with   half of our contacts expecting to increase outlays in the upcoming months   relative to prior-year levels. Little movement was seen in capacity utilization   rates. Reports on raw materials indicated that prices have stabilized or   declined slightly. Product pricing was fairly steady. Several of our respondents   expect steel prices to begin rising in the near future. Hiring continued at a   modest pace, with some manufacturers reporting difficulty in finding   high-skilled workers. Wage pressures are contained.
Activity in nonresidential construction has weakened slightly since our last   report. Although the number of inquiries has dropped off, several builders noted   that they have recently added to their backlogs. One contractor reported that   the rising incidence of stop-work orders on federal projects is contributing to   marketplace uncertainty. Most construction was contracted with manufacturers,   energy producers, or for infrastructure projects. Looking forward, several of   our contacts remain cautiously optimistic, while others believe an industry   rebound will not occur until 2013. Building material prices were mainly steady.   Little change in construction payrolls was noted, while union negotiations led   to a small increase in wages. Accounts of subcontractors struggling to stay in   business were common.
Most auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sales from early July through   mid-August were higher than the previous six-week period. On a year-over-year   basis, vehicle purchases improved for almost all of our contacts, with a few   noting double-digit increases. Demand for fuel-efficient, less-expensive cars   continued to grow, although the market for smaller SUVs remains stable.   Inventories are still at low levels, especially for Japanese brands. Dealers are   cautious in their outlook due to uncertainty about the economy and the   availability of vehicles that consumers want to buy. Demand for used cars   remained fairly strong; however, scarce inventory is contributing to higher   prices. We heard a few reports of some easing in credit restrictions, while the   use of leasing continues to grow. Many dealers are in the process of initiating   factory-mandated programs for showroom upgrades and reimaging, and two contacts   said that they are expanding their current facilities. The number of dealers who   are hiring sales and service personnel has picked up slightly since our last   report.
