Business contacts in the First District continue to report mixed results.   Some manufacturers cite slowing demand while others continue to enjoy strong   sales, retail activity is mostly flat, tourism is up, staffing and software and   IT services firms note continued growth, and real estate markets remain   sluggish. Respondents say input cost pressures have eased somewhat since the   last report. Firms are doing little hiring. Contacts in all sectors note that   the outlook is increasingly uncertain.
Travel and tourism in the region continued a strong upward trend through the   second quarter that began a year earlier; as of June 2011 year-to-date activity   in the hotel and visitor sector was up 7 percent from 2010. However, since   mid-July, activity has softened and slowed, leading to an increase in   promotional offers to shore up hotel bookings. The tourism industry has scaled   back its 2011 forecast and now thinks that a 5 percent increase would represent   a great year. The revised forecast reflects both lower consumer confidence and   potential reductions in business travel based on an uncertain economic outlook   for the next six months.
Employment remains steady at the vast majority of contacted manufacturers.   One exception is an industrial products manufacturer with headcount up 9 percent   year-to-date who plans to continue to hire as long as demand for their products   remains strong. By contrast, a semiconductor firm has eliminated some of its   temporary workforce because demand for its products is off. A small number of   manufacturers report continued difficulty finding workers for highly skilled   positions.
Fewer manufacturers report input price pressures and/or supply shortages than   in recent rounds, although the costs of rare earth metals continue to pose input   price pressure for some firms. One firm notes that anticipated supply   disruptions from the earthquake in Japan never materialized. Most manufacturers   reporting higher raw material costs continue to be able to pass the price   increases on to their customers with little resistance. A semiconductor firm,   however, notes that economic conditions limit its ability to pass along cost   increases. Healthcare costs continue to be a concern for contacted   manufacturers, although nearly all report providing merit pay increases to their   employees this year.
Responding manufacturers say capital spending remains more or less on plan,   with the majority of capital spending increases relative to last year going to   construction and/or updating of facilities. Most contacted firms report having   excellent cash positions and being willing to invest should a good opportunity   arise. Uncertainty surrounding the economic climate, however, continues to limit   their willingness to invest and hire; they are waiting to see what happens with   the economy before noticeably changing their current operating strategy.
Outlooks for the remainder of the year appear largely pessimistic, with   contacts expecting a continuation of slow activity. Most anticipate sales for   this year will not reach last year's total and forecast little improvement over   the next one to two years.
