
Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to expand modestly during   the reporting period of mid-July through the end of August. Upward price   pressures were mixed but appeared to ease overall, and upward pressures on wages   were subdued. Demand for retail items edged up on balance, as did demand for   business and consumer services. Manufacturing activity in the District grew a   bit further. Demand remained robust for agricultural producers but fell slightly   for providers of energy resources. Activity in District housing markets stayed   sluggish, and demand for commercial real estate was largely unchanged. District   banking contacts indicated that overall loan demand was stable or inched   down.
Upward wage pressures were largely nonexistent, as compensation gains were   held down by high levels of unemployment and limited demand for new hires. As a   result of uncertain product demand, businesses in most sectors expect to remain   highly cautious in regard to hiring for the foreseeable future, suggesting that   compensation pressures are likely to remain subdued. However, contacts continued   to report significant upward wage pressures for workers with advanced skills in   technology fields.
Demand for business and consumer services continued to strengthen overall.   Sales expanded further for providers of technology services, as consumer demand   for software, e-books, and mobile applications continued to grow. Providers of   professional services such as law and accounting reported that demand was little   changed from the prior period. Similarly, demand for transportation services was   characterized as largely flat. For energy utilities, demand waned a bit during   the beginning of the reporting period but improved later. Providers of   health-care services reported that demand strengthened somewhat. Conditions in   the District's travel and tourism industry improved further, with demand growth   reported for the business and tourism segments alike.
