
Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City and   based on information collected on or before August 26, 2011. This document   summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts outside the   Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve   officials.
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic   activity continued to expand at a modest pace, though some Districts noted mixed   or weakening activity. The St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San   Francisco Districts all reported either modest or slight expansion. Atlanta said   activity continued to expand at a very subdued pace, while Cleveland reported   slow growth and New York indicated growth remained sluggish. Economic activity   expanded more slowly in the Chicago District and slowed in the Richmond   District. Business activity in the Boston and Philadelphia Districts was   characterized as mixed, with Philadelphia adding that activity was somewhat   weaker overall. Several Districts also indicated that recent stock market   volatility and increased economic uncertainty had led many contacts to downgrade   or become more cautious about their near-term outlooks.
Consumer spending increased slightly in most Districts since the last survey,   but non-auto retail sales were flat or down in several Districts. Although poor   weather dampened growth in some areas, tourist activity remained solid in most   Districts. The demand for services was generally positive throughout the nation,   but one region said conditions were deteriorating. Of the five Districts   reporting on transportation, three said conditions were mostly positive, while   the other two reported activity as flat or slightly below expectations.   Manufacturing conditions were mixed across the country, but the pace of activity   slowed in many Districts. Residential real estate markets remained weak overall   with only a few slight improvements in some Districts. Most Districts   characterized commercial real estate and construction activity as weak or little   changed, but improvements were noted in several areas. Loan demand remained   stable or slightly weaker, and lending standards were largely unchanged with an   improvement in loan quality. Harsh summer weather negatively affected   agricultural activity, although recent rains in several Districts provided some   relief. Districts reporting on energy activity said it generally expanded, with   further growth expected.
Price pressures edged lower, although input costs continued to increase in   some industries and retail prices rose in several Districts. Labor markets were   generally stable, although some Districts reported modest employment growth.   Wage pressures were generally minimal outside of some upward movement for   skilled positions.
Most Districts reporting on auto sales noted increases in activity, despite   lingering supply disruptions for some Japanese nameplates. The Kansas City and   Cleveland Districts reported especially strong sales of fuel-efficient cars,   while luxury vehicles sold well in the Minneapolis District. High demand for   used cars was reported in several Districts. The New York and Philadelphia   Districts reported somewhat softer auto sales in July, attributed in part to   continued supply disruptions, although sales firmed somewhat in August. Tight   vehicle supplies were noted in some Districts, and the San Francisco District   noted ongoing shortages of Japanese nameplates. Auto contacts in the Dallas   District believed the supply issues from Japanese manufacturers should be   resolved by the end of September. Auto dealers in several Districts were   optimistic about future sales, although contacts in the Philadelphia District   said uncertainty clouded the outlook. The Cleveland District noted some easing   in auto credit restrictions, and New York said both retail and wholesale auto   credit conditions were good.
Tourism activity remained solid in most Districts, although poor weather   affected growth in some areas. Travel activity was reported as robust in the   Atlanta District, especially for airport traffic in South Florida. Tourism in   the New York City area was also very strong prior to Hurricane Irene, and city   theaters planned to re-open the Monday morning after the hurricane. Both   business and leisure travel posted further improvement in the San Francisco   District, and tourism activity was solid overall in the Minneapolis District   despite heavy rains in Montana. By contrast, tourism activity slowed in July in   the Boston District, leading hotels to increase promotional offerings, and the   Long Island and Jersey Shore areas of the New York District as well as coastal   areas of the Richmond District were heavily affected by hurricane evacuations in   late August. Hotels in several Districts were raising room rates, although the   Kansas City District noted some easing.
In transportation services, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Dallas reported mostly   positive conditions, while activity was flat in the San Francisco District and   below expectations in the Kansas City District. Railroad shipments rose slightly   in the Dallas District, with particularly strong volume growth in metallic ores,   petroleum products, and non-commercial building products. Cleveland noted an   acceleration in capital spending, mainly to replace aging equipment and support   demand growth from energy customers. Trucking firms in the Cleveland, Atlanta,   and Kansas City Districts reported a shortage of qualified drivers, and a few   firms noted concerns about higher fuel costs. Many services contacts expressed   substantial uncertainty about future business activity, with a few Districts   reporting weakened outlooks for transportation.
Looking across factory sectors, auto production decreased in the Cleveland   District due to normal seasonal retooling for model changeovers, and the Chicago   District said auto production leveled off in August after a strong July. Textile   manufacturers in the Richmond District said markets have grown weaker due to   declining consumer confidence. Construction-related manufacturing was   characterized as weak in the Dallas and Philadelphia Districts, and Boston noted   a cyclical decline in semiconductor demand. Philadelphia reported a decline in   food manufacturing, and the Kansas City District noted weakness at nondurable   goods plants. In contrast, commercial aircraft manufacturers in the San   Francisco District reported solid production rates due to new orders for   narrow-body aircraft and a growing order backlog. A metal fabricator in the   Minneapolis District announced plans to expand a facility in northwestern   Montana. Capacity utilization in the steel industry remained at record high   levels in the Chicago District, and a tire manufacturer in the Atlanta District   noted particular pressure in meeting a recent surge in new orders due to supply   chain normalization after the Japan disaster.
Commercial real estate conditions remained weak or little changed in most   Districts, although some improvements were noted by New York, Minneapolis, and   Dallas. Commercial real estate activity was sluggish in the Boston, Cleveland,   Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts. However, San   Francisco noted some areas have benefited from technology sector growth, and   Boston noted investor demand for prime office buildings remained strong. New   York said office vacancy rates declined noticeably in the Buffalo and Rochester   metro areas and modestly in Manhattan and Long Island. Lower commercial rents   helped push down vacancy rates in the Kansas City District, and the Dallas   District noted strong demand for leased space in Houston due to solid energy   activity. Commercial construction was characterized as weak or limited by   Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and Kansas City, although Atlanta noted some   strength in the healthcare sector. St. Louis described conditions as mixed, with   some improvement in education and energy-related construction, while Minneapolis   District contacts reported an increase in small retrofitting projects and   rebuilding in flood-damaged areas. The Chicago District noted continued strength   in industrial construction, particularly in the automotive sector. Credit for   commercial development remained an obstacle for small retailers in the Richmond   District, although Boston said aggressive competition among lenders led to   reduced borrowing rates.
Most Districts said that loan quality was generally improving and that credit   standards were largely unchanged. Cleveland reported a decline in delinquencies   across all loan categories, and Richmond and Kansas City also indicated a   continued strengthening in loan quality. However, New York indicated that   delinquency rates increased on most categories of loans and that banks tightened   standards for commercial mortgages and commercial and industrial loans. Banking   contacts in several Districts also referenced concerns about the economy. The   Chicago District cited recent volatility in financial markets and reduced   expectations for economic growth, while Kansas City District contacts listed a   weak economic recovery and uncertainty about financial regulations.
Energy activity generally expanded since the last survey period, with   additional gains expected in coming months. The Minneapolis, Kansas City, and   Dallas Districts reported an increase in land-based oil drilling activity, and   the Atlanta and Dallas Districts reported a modest rise in off-shore drilling   operations in the Gulf of Mexico. Natural gas exploration rose in the Cleveland   District, and remained steady in the Kansas City and San Francisco Districts.   Additional capital investments in oil and gas production were expected in the   Cleveland, Atlanta, and Kansas City Districts. Energy contacts in the Cleveland   and Kansas City Districts noted some new hiring, although permit delays and   environmental compliance could constrain expansion. Coal production rose in the   Kansas City District, held steady in the Cleveland District, and fell in the St.   Louis District. Higher metals prices spurred mining activity in the Minneapolis   and San Francisco Districts, especially for iron ore.
The majority of Districts reported fewer price pressures, but input costs   continued to rise in select industries. The New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland,   and San Francisco Districts noted some stabilization or decline in raw materials   prices but Chicago said elevated commodity prices continued to put pressure on   costs, particularly copper and steel. Manufacturers in the Boston District were   able to pass through input price increases with little resistance, although a   semiconductor firm was one exception. The Kansas City District reported   construction materials prices as steady, excluding prices of petroleum-based   products such as roofing shingles and asphalt, which continued to rise. Retail   prices were steady or rising slightly in New York, Richmond, and Atlanta,   although some Atlanta District retailers mentioned that weak sales could prompt   them to lower prices. Retailers in the Dallas District noted a slight decline in   overall prices, although increases were observed in certain high-end goods and   cotton-based products. Prices for cotton-based products, such as clothing, also   increased in the San Francisco and Cleveland Districts. Food prices climbed   higher in the Cleveland and Chicago Districts, and restaurants in the Kansas   City District expected further increases in menu prices as a result of rising   food costs.
