
The Ninth District economy has grown slightly since the last report.   Increased activity was noted in consumer spending, tourism, residential and   commercial construction, residential real estate, manufacturing, energy and   mining. Crop reports were mostly down from last year, but several District   agricultural prices have risen recently. Activity in commercial real estate and   professional services was flat overall. Reports from labor markets include a mix   of layoffs and new hiring, while wage increases remain moderate. Price increases   were generally modest.
Minnesota auto dealers were profitable, with recent sales up from last year   but still down substantially from 2006, according to an auto dealers association   representative. Two auto dealers in Montana reported recent gains in sales from   a year ago, but a third dealer described sales as dismal.
Tourism activity was solid in July and August. While early summer rains and   high river levels hampered fishing and other outdoor activities in Montana,   overall tourism picked up in July. Tourism businesses in northwestern Wisconsin   were busy during July and August, according to an official. Activity was up   about 5 percent compared with last year in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan;   hotels were able to raise prices without losing volume.
Commercial real estate markets were flat. Commercial real estate respondents   to the Minneapolis Fed's ad hoc survey noted flat revenues and profits over the   past three months. Comments from Minneapolis-St. Paul area contacts include the   following: "There is very little activity in the leasing, sales and land   development arena." "The market is full of fence sitters because of general   uncertainty about the economy." Residential real estate markets grew. Home sales   in July were up significantly from the same period a year ago in the   Minneapolis-St. Paul and Fargo, N.D., markets. However, July pending sales of   homes in the Sioux Falls area decreased from July 2010.
Wage increases remained moderate, although some contentious contract   negotiations were reported. For example, a sugar beet refining company locked   out 1,300 workers beginning Aug. 1.
Overall price increases were modest. A July Augustana College survey of Sioux   Falls businesses indicated little change in prices received for their products   and services. Except for gold, a number of metal prices have decreased since the   last report, although they remain well above year-earlier levels. Diesel fuel   and gasoline prices were still nearly a dollar per gallon higher than a year   ago, but their rate of increase has slowed. Input costs increased over the past   three months, according to 46 percent of the ad hoc survey respondents; only 9   percent indicated decreases.
