Late summer economic conditions in the Sixth District remain weak. Consumer spending patterns show no increase from mid-summer. Employment conditions are worsening. Falling grain and soybean prices threaten to reduce farm income further. Only the lower-cost sectors of the tourist industry show improvement over last year or earlier this season. Virtually the sole harbinger of recovery in the region's economy is construction, which has begun to realize a previously predicted upturn. Employment and Industry Regional labor markets display further signs of deterioration in August and September. Reports of layoffs and plant shutdowns combined with preliminary, partial employment figures indicate the likelihood that the District's unemployment rate rose again in late summer. Alabama's August unemployment rate climbed to 14.1 percent (S.A.). Layoffs have recently been announced in such diverse industries as pharmaceuticals, rubber, food processing, shipbuilding, agricultural chemicals, paper, lumber, textiles, apparel, electrical and agricultural machinery, steel, aluminum, and coal. At some companies, such as McDermott, the large offshore construction firm headquartered in New Orleans, layoffs extend to white-collar personnel. Even firms which traditionally try to retain employees through periods of slack demand, such as Stockham Valves and Fittings and American Cast Iron and Pipe, have furloughed workers. Although respondents are generally optimistic that the recession has passed its trough, almost none have plans to increase hiring in the next few months. Since the Red Book employment panel is weighted toward the most successful manufacturing firms headquartered in the District, this response does not augur well for the region's near-term employment outlook. Orders at regional pulp and paper mills are weak, and paper inventories in Tennessee are termed by one observer as "exploding." Aluminum and steel inventories remain at high levels in Louisiana and Alabama, respectively. A spokesman for the petrochemical industry in Louisiana reports that no chemical processing companies in the state have expansion plans at present. In fact, most plants are operating substantially below capacity. One encouraging sign in Florida is that phosphate rock and fertilizer inventories have dwindled significantly. The first-half downtrend in capital spending appears to be continuing in the third quarter. General Electric postponed indefinitely plans to build a $1.5 billion plastics plant in Alabama. Consumer Spending August taxable sales were up moderately (in real terms) over last year in Alabama, Georgia, and Tennessee but down in Florida, Louisiana, and Mississippi. Retailers report generally flat back-to-school sales. Although hopeful of improvement by the Christmas season, they are ordering conservatively and holding inventories taut. Consumers, too, are widely reported to be very cautious. Sales of big-ticket home furnishings remain weak, reflecting the depressed housing sector, while first-time purchases of such new products as microwave ovens, video recorders, and personal computers remain strong. Auto sales still appear to be sharply below last year's levels. Factory incentive plans are proving less effective for southeastern dealers than earlier customer rebates, and the tax cut has not spurred car sales. Dealers also link weak August-September sales to consumer uncertainties regarding employment, interest rates, and 1983 car prices. Dealers are ordering new models cautiously. Construction and Real Estate According to our survey of building codes departments, real estate firms, and savings and loan institutions (S&Ls), housing has begun to improve slowly. Codes departments report a slight rise in August building permits for single-family residences and a moderate increase in some areas during the first half of September. Building permits for "additions" remain strong. S&Ls indicate that loans are up somewhat. Commercial sales and leasing remain slow but steady. Even more encouraging are reports from realtors that home sales are finally improving, especially in Atlanta, Jacksonville, Knoxville, and Nashville. However, slower growth areas as well as much of Alabama and Louisiana have yet to pick up. Moreover, realtors and thrift officers repeatedly state that mortgage rates need to fall to 12-13 percent before the market really gets moving. Many potential home buyers are reportedly postponing purchases to see if rates decline further or stabilize. Aside from these qualifications, the mood in the District is definitely more positive than earlier this summer. Tourism Tourist industry representatives and partial statistics indicate that higher priced sectors of the industry continue to languish; moreover, the bright spot of earlier reports-the World's Fair-has continued the decline reported in August. If average daily attendance does not increase, the Fair will not reach the break-even level of 11 million visitors. Fair officials, however, remain optimistic. Across the District, less expensive facilities, such as campgrounds and state and national parks, are enjoying sharply increased usage, especially by in-state visitors, whereas hotels and motels have fewer guests, and convention business, particularly in Atlanta, is off from last September. Florida and Louisiana remain the weakest areas. New Orleans' most popular restaurant reports that this summer was the worst in its history. Respondents continue to attribute Florida's poor performance to recession here and abroad and to the World's Fair; in addition, many have begun to suggest that the October 1 opening of Disney World's EPCOT is postponing travel to the state. Agriculture Farm income prospects have become decidedly more dismal in recent weeks. Soybeans produce about two-fifths of the region's noncitrus crop income. Prices have fallen 10 percent in the past month, reducing prospective soybean income by $350 million and dropping the estimated total 13 percent below last year's drought- reduced level. Prices of most other crops have also declined recently, leaving tobacco as the sole bright spot with prices averaging 9 percent above last year. Income prospects of livestock producers have been bolstered somewhat by recent price gains for hogs and calves. On balance, however, aggregate net farm income in the District will be lower than in 1981, and debt problems of farmers will grow more severe. A major lender reports that an increase in foreclosures of relatively large Mississippi Delta farming operations is already occurring. Finance A telephone survey of Sixth District banking and thrift institutions regarding the new 7- to 31-day small time deposits reveals little consumer interest in these accounts, which only the larger institutions have offered. Because alternative instruments which yield competitive rates and/or offer substantially the same maturity are available, our contacts believe no market exists for this service. They view it as a defensive move to maintain customer relationships. The Sixth District's experience with these accounts suggests that third-party transaction privileges and much smaller minimum deposits are necessary to elicit adequate consumer interest. Panel of Economists Our panel of state forecasters and academic, banking, business, and investment economists continue to approve of current monetary policy, finding it conducive to moderate recovery without rekindling inflation. A smaller majority recommends monetary growth in excess of targets, while nearly one-third of those polled urge a rapid return to within-target growth. Virtually all feel their state is near the trough of the business cycle, with no signs of recovery and some of further deterioration. The majority, revising their previous outlook, foresee a later, weaker recovery. All respondents mentioned lower, stabilized interest rates as critical to inducing increased consumer spending; a majority also regard GNP growth as important to overcoming consumer resistance. There is no clear consensus among those surveyed regarding the recent drop in business loan demand, but bank economists note that recent corporate loan demand has been better here than in the nation.