Summary Economic conditions and the outlook in the Fourth District remain bleak. Unemployment is high. Survey results and leading indicators suggest continued sluggishness in economic activity. Capital goods production is unlikely to recover until next year. The steel industry remains in depression. Weakness continues in construction with few signs of improvement. Retailers are cautious, expecting slow sales gains. Municipal employment and creditworthiness have fallen. Unemployment Labor markets in the District remain weak. Unemployment rates continue higher than the national rate, but are demonstrating no clear trend. In Ohio, the unemployment rate (s.a.) was 12.7 percent in August, up 0.3 percentage points since April. Among the District's eleven major SMSA's, unemployment rates (n.s.a.) in July ranged from 9.1 percent in Columbus to 18.2 percent in Youngstown, and most SMSAs had rates about 2 percentage points higher than the national rate. District Outlook Continued sluggishness in District economic activity is suggested by leading indicators and our latest survey of manufacturers. An index of leading indicators for the Pittsburgh SMSA posted its fourteenth consecutive monthly decline in July. An index of leading indicators for the Cleveland SMSA rose in July but has declined in eight of the last twelve months. Results from our September survey of Fourth District manufacturers indicate District manufacturing activity has yet to trough. New orders and shipments are expected to expand, but at a slower rate than in August. Manufacturers continue to liquidate inventories at about the same rate as in August. Contractions in employment and hours worked are expected to be less severe than in August. Capital Goods Capital goods production continues to weaken with no recovery seen until next year. A producer of recording instruments for the natural gas industry reports a sudden drop in orders. A large diversified capital goods producer reports his backlogs are low and there is "complete disarray" in capital goods markets with little prospect for recovery in the next six months. A major bank expects the lag between an upturn in economic activity and an upturn in real expenditures on capital goods will be longer than usual in this cycle and will not occur much before the second half of 1983. Steel Current conditions and outlook in the steel industry remain dismal. Output remains extremely weak, with producers operating at about 40 percent of capacity. Workers continue to be furloughed. Republic Steel has cut exempt employee salaries 7 percent effective October 1 and is planning to layoff about 13 percent of currently working non-union employees in early autumn. One major producer reports that the steel market "is on hold," with no meaningful improvement expected until the fourth quarter. Another major firm reports that "near-term cutbacks in auto production and continued declines in capital goods production are depressing steel demand. A slowing of steel-user inventory liquidation should produce moderate improvement in fourth quarter steel demand. Steel mill inventories will be liquidated through year end and into early 1983." A medium size steel producer reports his orders fell 20 percent in August after some improvement in June and July. Construction Weakness continues in construction with few signs of improvement. A builder describes industrial construction as being in the "depths of depression" and showing no signs of improving. He looks for industrial, commercial, and highway construction to start growing in second quarter 1983. A director reports several office building construction projects nearing completion have not yet been able to attract permanent financing. A home building executive reports strong customer interest but weak sales because of a wait- and-see attitude toward interest rates. Fixed rates on mortgages in the Cleveland area have been lowered to about 15 percent and variable rates are in a 14 percent to 15 percent range but there is still very little consumer response. Some thrifts are not encouraging loan activity because of continued deposit losses and are worried that they will not be able to roll over the maturing All Savers Certificates, now 5 percent to 6 percent of total deposits, in light of intense competition. They expect little let-up in their earnings and net worth squeeze. Moreover, some point out they own the highest proportion of non-productive assets in years because of repossessed houses. Retail Sales Retail sales are weak but some growth is expected. A national retailer of general merchandise reports consumer outlays are slow, but a regional retailer of do-it-yourself building supplies says his sales are still holding up. A department store executive is cautiously optimistic about Christmas sales and has ordered more merchandise for fourth quarter this year than last. A banker observes that the saving rate has jumped but consumer debt has increased only slowly, so prospects for recovery in consumer outlays are promising. An economist with a national retail chain headquartered in this District still expects consumer spending to lead an economic recovery, but revival will be smaller and later than usual. He expects real PCE this quarter to increase only 0.5 percent from last, but a larger increase in fourth quarter if the saving rate recedes to 6 percent, interest rates decline further, and retailers continue to price aggressively. An economist with an auto producer is also cautious about near-term prospects. He expects total new car sales in fourth quarter to increase only 6 percent from this quarter's dismal 7.8 million a.r., partly because high interest rates on installment loans remain a constraint on sales. He expects that dealer rebates will be sufficient to reduce inventories of 1982 models over the next few months. Municipal Finance Tight fiscal conditions have reduced municipal employment and creditworthiness. Local governments in Ohio reduced employment by 1,600 non-school employees in August while public schools and colleges reduced employment by 2,700 workers. Cleveland expects to furlough about 100 workers soon. A municipal bond dealer reports that the market views municipal debt in Ohio as not as good as in many other areas of the country, and most issues have been downgraded a notch, reflecting general economic conditions and federal grant reductions. Nevertheless, he believes the quality of debt in Ohio is generally good, and the debt is being received favorably in the market. He knows of no local government that has had difficulty issuing or servicing its debt. In contrast, a major banker reports that weaknesses in the fiscal positions and financial information systems of some municipalities are hampering their access to capital markets.