Overview Business conditions in the Tenth District are mixed with only hints that a weak recovery is under way. Retail sales are growing slowly and the pressures to decrease inventory have declined. Purchasing agents, however, are still attempting to decrease inventories and do not anticipate increases in prices until next year. While savings and loan associations are still having problems, recent declines in interest rates are improving their situation. Lower interest rates are also improving sales of expensive houses, but lower priced house sales still languish. Without a severe frost a large harvest of corn and soybeans is assured, continuing the downward pressures on crop prices. Both loan demand and deposit growth in the Tenth District are flat. There are some reports that the decline in loan quality has stabilized. Retail Trade Retail sales grew moderately in the Tenth District during the first eight months of 1982 as compared with the same period last year. Most of the sales gains came in apparel and softgoods during July and August. Merchandise costs remain stable as do profit margins. Inventories are slightly higher than expected but are not causing concern heading into the fall and Christmas selling seasons. District retailers expect continued growth in sales during the rest of the year. Purchasing Agents Tenth District purchasing agents report input prices have risen from 2 to 6 percent during the past year. Prices are expected to remain stable for the remainder of the year and to begin increasing early next year. All firms contacted are decreasing inventories. A few firms are experiencing slightly longer lead times on purchases, but input availability is not considered a major problem in the Tenth District. All firms continue to have excess capacity, and a few have laid off workers recently. Savings and Loan Activity Savings inflows at Tenth District savings and loan associations are advancing but have still failed to lift many institutions out of a net outflow position. Most officers at those associations expect higher inflows for the rest of the year. District associations continue to commit funds to blended rate mortgages for existing customers. Commitments to first time applicants, however, remain at very low levels. Officers quote rates on blended mortgages averaging 13 1/2 percent and rates on first time conventional loans averaging 15 1/2 percent. These mortgage rates have fallen one to two percentage points since July. Officers at most associations expect rates to drop one more percentage point by the end of the year. Home Builders' Associations Tenth District home builders' associations indicate that housing starts are showing slight increases over last year's levels, with single-family units doing considerably better than multi-family units. Sales of new homes in the $150,000 and higher bracket are increasing, but sales of lower priced homes continue to be sluggish. Inventories of new homes are at very low levels, with no change expected until the signs of economic recovery are more definite. Building materials are, for the most part, plentiful in the Tenth District. However, some shortages are occurring for some types of lumber. Agriculture Crops are maturing at a rate only slightly behind normal in most areas of the Tenth District. Harvesting of corn is well under way. Soybeans, though, are still maturing and harvesting is expected to begin in the next two weeks. The possibility of an early severe frost threatens areas in Colorado, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska with potential damage to soybeans and grain sorghum of 25 to 50 percent. Parts of Nebraska have already been exposed to light frost-but with little damage. Some shortages of grain storage capacity are beginning to appear throughout the Tenth District. Higher prices for hogs have improved the financial condition of producers, but very little expansion of hog production is being reported thus far. Banking Developments Overall loan demand is steady throughout the Tenth District. Business loan demand is declining primarily due to the slowdown in oil and gas exploration. Lower rates are causing a modest increase in real estate and automobile loan demand, however. Agricultural loan demand remains low. The deterioration of loan quality which has been observed over the last year seems to be stabilizing. Only a few bankers are experiencing a modest decline in loan quality. The prime rates charged by the banks surveyed range from 13 1/2 to 15 1/2 percent. The range in August was 14 to 15 3/4 percent. Most bankers do not expect an increase in rates during the next month. Overall deposit growth at Tenth District banks is flat. Several bankers report strong growth in existing NOW accounts, but very few new accounts are being opened. Almost no growth in All Savers Certificates is reported. Most bankers are not concerned about the possible loss of these funds at maturity. One banker reports the cancellation of a planned repurchase agreement account due to the position taken by the FDIC that holders of repurchase agreements at the failed Mount Pleasant Bank and Trust Company have no claim to government securities pledged to back up the agreement.