The Twelfth District economy continues to struggle with recession conditions. Consumer spending in August was down or flat in nominal terms relative to a year ago and does not appear to have responded as yet to recent declines in interest rates or lower Federal taxes. Commercial construction is joining residential construction as a depressed industry, although there are exceptions to this weak construction picture in certain areas of the District. The aerospace and electronics industries, although weak, continue to be reliant on military spending for their remaining strength. In the agricultural sector, the picture is highly varied, as bumper crops in certain commodities depress prices but boost processing activity, while other areas, such as potato processing, have suffered severe cutbacks in activity. The most notable developments in banking in the District are the widespread reports of loan delinquencies and foreclosures, and the rapid spread of "sweep" types of consumer deposit accounts. There appears to be little response of corporate investment or finance activity to the recent decline in short- and long-term interest rates. Consumer Spending The recent declines in interest rates have not sparked a recovery of consumer spending in autos, housing or department store sales. All four major department stores in the Los Angeles area, for example, report nominal sales for August below that of a year ago. Although there is increased optimism in the automobile and housing sectors, reports of increases in activity are spotty. In Bakersfield, California, for example, several dealerships report sales nearing "profitable" levels, particularly for the larger size vehicles. Throughout the District, however, continued high levels of unemployment hamper consumers' spending enthusiasm. The State of Washington, for example, has a persistent 12 percent unemployment rate. Even in the normally busy harvest season in California's Central Valley, unemployment rates are in the 12 to 17 percent range. The conservative spending attitudes of the District are also reflected in the relative strength of maintenance-type activities such as automobile service and home improvement companies. Consumers prefer to fix their old items rather than buy new ones. Manufacturing and Mining Twelfth District manufacturing and mining activity continues to be depressed. The recent resurgence of gold prices has raised hopes of increased activity in Nevada, the country's largest gold producing state, but there has been little actual production response. Similar hopes abound in Idaho's Silver Valley, but major mines such as the Bunker Hill Mine continue to operate at low capacity, with 4,000 of its 5,000 workers still laid off. The aerospace industry would be at extremely depressed levels because of heavy order cancellation were it not for military contracts. As it is, many plants in the industry are closed or operating only 3 or 4 days per week. Boeing is considering consolidating its 727 and 757 divisions, which would reduce its workforce still further. In a recent survey of Twelfth District Directors, little optimism was expressed that the recent declines in interest rates and Federal taxes would spur corporate sales or change corporate investment and inventory behavior in the near term. Much of District industry apparently has taken a "wait and see" attitude toward these developments. Construction and Real Estate The level of depression of the housing industry varies widely in the District. In Idaho, housing starts in August were 45 percent below the level of a year ago. In Los Angeles, a large overhang of unsold homes reflects the continued weakness of that market. In stark contrast to the general housing picture in the District, however, Alaska reports an increase in single-family residential construction permits of 47 percent over last year and a sevenfold increase in multi-unit permits. Commercial construction is reported throughout the District as "weakening" or "quiet," suggesting that this one prop to the recession-weary construction industry is gradually giving way. Agriculture Until there is a revival in the housing industry, the weakness in the District's forest products industry can be expected to continue. Overall, the lumber industry is operating at less than 70 percent of capacity, supported in part by sales of logs to Far Eastern customers. The picture in other agricultural products depends upon the commodity. In Idaho, 2 potato processors recently closed plants, laying off 1,200 workers. In the grain and grape markets, bumper crops are severely depressing prices. These developments, coupled with recent reductions in agricultural price supports, have severely hampered growth in farm income. In contrast, California tomato canners are working 24 hour shifts handling increased production. Financial Institutions The savings and loan industry continues to suffer in the Twelfth District, although there is increased optimism that declining interest rates will brighten the picture over ensuing quarters. Consumer "sweep" type deposit accounts, whereby bank and savings and loan association depositors can enjoy the features of money market funds, have been widely introduced and are expected to be popular, although costly to the financial institutions. In contrast, the enthusiasm for the new 31 day accounts seems to be reserved. Loan demand is very slack and a recent survey suggests that the declines in long-term interest rates have been insufficient to prompt many borrowers to convert short-term to long-term financing. The most prominent development in the financial services area is the startling increase in loan delinquencies and foreclosures. This phenomenon is widespread, but typified by the report of one bank that delinquent loans had risen to 6 percent from one and one-half percent a year ago. The overhang of seller-financed housing debt adds to apprehension about these developments.