The Ninth District economy has remained depressed. The construction industry continued in the doldrums, with the only signs of revival appearing in nonbuilding construction (work on highways, bridges, sewer and water facilities, and energy projects). The weak manufacturing, mining, and lumbering industries reported in the last Redbook did not improve in August or early September. Consumer spending remained weak. Farmers were still troubled by falling crop prices, and an early frost could substantially reduce their crop yields. As a result of these continued weaknesses in the real sectors, bank lending in the district remained sluggish. Construction District construction activity remained depressed. In the second quarter, for example, construction employment, which accounts for approximately 5 percent of district nonagricultural employment, was down 3 percent from a year earlier and 22 percent from the second quarter of 1979, construction's last good year. Nonbuilding construction has started to revive, but its impact has not been sufficient to offset the decline in the other sectors. Nonresidential Building Weak commercial and industrial building has been holding down nonresidential building. Commercial and industrial building accounts for about 60 percent of the district's nonresidential building. According to F. W. Dodge, during the first seven months of this year, the dollar value of district nonresidential contract awards was down 8 percent from a year earlier and 13 percent from the first seven months of 1979. Conversations with builders, industrial developers and realtors from throughout the district confirm the shrinkage in contract awards. Most of them describe commercial and industrial building as slow. For example, the marketing director of a large Minneapolis builder says that his firm's business this year is down about 50 percent from a year ago. Commercial and industrial building activity is still considered good, however, in Billings, Montana, and in St. Cloud and Rochester, Minnesota. An immediate pickup in commercial and industrial building is not likely because excess space exists and interest rates are still too high. Our contacts think that many businesses do need additional space and that now is a good time to obtain it; new commercial and industrial building prices are presently very attractive. But interest rates, they believe, are still too high for businesses to take advantage of favorable construction prices. Two executives with large Minneapolis builders indicate that long-term interest rates would have to drop another two percentage points and stay down for several months for any significant pickup in commercial and industrial building to occur. Also, for certain types of commercial and industrial building, excess space is a problem. The current vacancy rate for office buildings in the Minneapolis-St. Paul suburbs, for example, is 15 percent, more than twice the 6 to 7 percent rate that realtors consider normal. Residential Building Residential building has also been very weak, and recent home sales suggest no immediate improvement. The number of district housing units authorized by building permits during the first six months of this year was 23 percent below the number authorized a year earlier and 56 percent below the number authorized in the first half of 1979. Homebuilding is not likely to pick up soon, because consumers have simply not been buying homes. According to the Minneapolis Board of Realtors, August home sales in Minneapolis and its suburbs were down 28 percent from a year ago. Although no immediate rebound is likely, homebuilding could pick up in several months. Our Bank directors and district realtors indicate that the recent interest rate declines have substantially increased shopping, if not buying. Nonbuilding In contrast to residential and nonresidential construction, nonbuilding construction, although still depressed, has shown signs of reviving. During the first eight months of this year, contracts for highways, bridges, and sewer and water facilities in Minnesota and the Dakotas were still 21 percent below their level in the first eight months of 1979, but they were 11 percent above their level in those months last year. This component got an additional boost when contracts were let earlier this year for a $1.2 billion coal gasification plant in North Dakota. Other Industrial Activity The weak manufacturing, mining, and lumbering industries reported in our last Redbook have yet to show any evidence of recovery. The slowdown in manufacturing orders and production appears to have continued, and district firms have still been curtailing operations and laying off workers. For example, the district's only auto assembly plant closed for a week in mid-September, and a large Wisconsin manufacturer of heating and cooling equipment recently laid off 250 workers. Also, lumber production remained depressed in August and early September, and although some iron mines have resumed production, others have extended previously announced shutdowns. The district was fortunate that the recent rail strike disrupted very little industrial activity. Minneapolis-St. Paul business executives have actually been more upset by the prospect of lost revenues due to the NFL players' strike. In Minneapolis, this strike could prevent a planned reduction in a hotel and liquor tax which was imposed to pay for our new $55 million domed stadium. Consumer Spending Consumers' reluctance to spend has slowed the recovery of auto and other retail sales. Major Minneapolis-St. Paul retailers and our Bank directors report that back-to-school sales were disappointing. Furthermore, the recent declines in interest rates and increases in stock prices have not relieved the previously reported sluggishness in furniture and automobile sales. One major Twin Cities retailer calls August furniture sales "lousy." And a regional sales manager for a large domestic automobile manufacturer indicates that recent developments have not spurred car sales. In fact, his firm's sales in Minnesota and the Dakotas declined more than seasonally between July and September. Agriculture Declining crop prices have continued to trouble district farmers. An announcement in August by the USDA, that corn and soybean harvests would be larger than expected, pushed down already weak crop prices. Between July and September, cash prices for soybeans, corn, and wheat in Minneapolis declined 12, 8, and 5 percent, respectively. Livestock prices have exhibited a mixed pattern. Lower crop prices increased the attractiveness of feeding livestock, which has helped to keep feeder cattle prices at their midsummer levels. Also, hog prices have remained at the high level reached this summer. Increased slaughter cattle supplies, however, have pushed the prices of these livestock down; and in mid-September in South St. Paul, they reached their lowest level in 18 months. In addition to price problems, district corn and soybean farmers also have major concerns about the weather. Due to wet weather delaying spring planting, district crops are maturing later than usual. Normally, for example, about 50 percent of Minnesota's corn crop is mature by mid-September. This year only 23 percent is ready for harvest. A frost in the next few weeks (a distinct possibility) could substantially reduce yields. Although reduced yields in the district would ease the storage problem discussed in our last Redbook, they would not significantly affect prices because the district's share of total U.S. production of corn and soybeans is small. Thus, until crops are harvested, district farmers are faced with the possibility of a bleak scenario: low crop prices, which are virtually certain, and poor crop yields which will depend on the vagaries of the weather. Bank Lending As reported in our last Redbook, these weaknesses in the district economy continued to be reflected in sluggish bank lending. In mid-September, lending at district member banks did not increase from its weak level of early August.