Summary The expected upturn in economic activity has not developed in the Seventh District. Purchasing managers in Chicago and Milwaukee reported further declines in shipments, orders, output, inventories, and employment in August with no indication that September would see improvement. State and local governments are also cutting staff. Projections of demand for motor vehicles and steel have been reduced again for September and the fourth quarter. Although some producers report a leveling off in orders, most capital goods producers have laid off additional workers and more plants have closed. Retail sales remain slow with no help from "back-to-school" buying. Although lower interest rates have not helped housing materially, some improvement in "attitudes" is reported. Expected record corn and soybean harvests will keep prices low and increase financial pressures on the farm sector. However, mainly because of lower feed costs, the outlook has improved for livestock farmers, especially hog producers. Also on the upside are sales of grain storage bins and equipment to handle the excess production. A scattering of defense procurement orders is providing a few jobs. Inflation continues at moderate rates with heavy discounting in wholesale and, to a lesser extent, in retail markets. Forecasts Reduced District businessmen and lenders are losing hope that a revival in activity will occur in the remainder of 1982. Particularly for capital goods and heavy construction, doubts are increasing that a recovery will be manifest before mid-1983 at the earliest. Lower interest rates will not have as large an impact as in earlier cycles because of substantial unused capacity, financial stress, and abysmal morale. Even service industries such as medicine, advertising, and law note the effect of hard times. However, firms specializing in bankruptcy procedures, accountants, lawyers, and liquidators, are doing a booming business. Complaints of past due accounts, business and consumer, are much more common than in past recessions. Employment and Wages New claims for unemployment compensation continue at high levels. Many employers, including governmental units, are cutting staff. New hires generally are held to the minimum necessary to fill essential slots. Help-wanted ads bring a flood of resumes and some employers prefer to fill openings by transfers from within or on personal recommendations. Many companies have frozen or reduced salaries this year. Where increases have been granted, the 7-8 percent range predominates, down from 9-10 percent in past years. Current plans are for much smaller increases in 1983. Consumer Expenditures Retailers reported disappointing sales of most soft and hard goods in August and September. "Back-to-school" promotions did not bring the normal response. Nevertheless, children's merchandise, clothing and toys, is generally doing better than adults' merchandise. Appliances, carpets, and other home furnishings are especially weak, a trend attributed, in part, to reduced sales of houses. Auto parts and service and video games continue to be star performers. Larger chains report favorable delinquency experience, but more careful monitoring of accounts has been necessary. Because of slow sales, retail inventories are adequate to excessive, and ordering of goods for the winter season is well below normal. Closings of stores and fast food operations are increasingly frequent, and few new outlets are being added. Capital Expenditures The recession in business equipment is in full swing. Layoffs in many plants have reached 20 to 50 percent of the peak force, with high seniority hourly workers and white collar types affected to a much greater extent than in earlier postwar recessions. Some farm and construction equipment plants will be closed for most of the fourth quarter with reopening tentatively scheduled for January. Most rail freight car plants are closed indefinitely. One heavy truck plant is closed and may not reopen. A machine tool producer sees no pickup in the current low level of demand until late 1983. Imports are taking a growing share of the markets for machine tools and farm and construction equipment, helped by the high value of the dollar. Export demand is restricted by limited availability of government financial aid, compared with foreign competitors. Low demand for services of plant location advisers, architects, and design engineers suggests that the capital spending slump will be deeper and longer than in earlier cycles. Motor vehicles Some auto and truck plants are closed to cut inventories at a time when production is usually at high levels to supply dealers with new models. On September 1 stocks of 24 domestic models exceeded 100 days supply, an unprecedented situation. Price incentives have been pushed to move the large carryover of 1982 models, and some 1981s. Meanwhile, various imported models are in short supply. Even the new domestic compact trucks, strong sellers earlier in the year, have slumped in recent months. Steel One forecast of steel shipments for 1982 has been reduced to the 60-65 million ton range, lowest since 1958. Demand for steel continues at extremely low levels. All products are weak, but structurals and heavy plates for capital goods are "terrible." Oil field steel has plummeted in an unprecedented fashion. The only improved demand categories are ordnance and grain bins. Defense Procurement The principal facilities devoted exclusively to defense procurement in the Seventh District are a tank arsenal, an electronic counter-measures plant, and the Rock Island Army Arsenal. In addition, District companies have obtained orders for small naval vessels, armored cars, personnel carriers, fuel trucks, special rail cars, communications equipment, aircraft engine parts, and a variety of other components. Overall, however, this region is not sharing proportionately in the defense buildup. Agriculture Projected record corn and soybean harvests, as in 1981, will exceed utilization and augment already burdensome carryover stocks. Corn and soybean prices have declined sharply in anticipation of the expected surplus production and are expected to remain well under the low year-ago levels. Many District crop farmers will remain in the grip of a cash-flow squeeze, partly reflecting the small proportion of farmers eligible for government price supports on their 1982 crops. Prospects for livestock farmers have improved. High prices and low feed costs have generated large profits for hog farmers. Cattle prices have weakened in recent weeks, but low feed costs and reduced finance charges suggest that cattle feeders will be able to cover production costs.