Indications from the Third District are mixed but point to continued weakness in the local economy overall. Conditions in the manufacturing sector still show no conclusive signs of a turnaround, and retail sales are sluggish at best. In the banking sector, loan demand has risen and a drop in interest rates is reported. The home building industry, despite a drop in mortgage rates, remains in very poor shape. The outlook for some recovery in the next six months is generally optimistic, but cautious, across all industries. Both manufacturers and retailers are certain that improvement will occur, but are planning on it being slow and late starting. Bankers expect a hesitant recovery, as well, with further distress borrowing pushing up loan volume. Construction and Real Estate The housing market in the Third District remains mired in the slump that has plagued it for well over a year now, according to area real estate brokers. Industry contacts report some recent improvement in market conditions, highlighted by a dip in mortgage rates to the 14 to 15.25 percent range. Buyers, however, apparently still view rates as too high to buy. Traffic through new and older homes is up a little, but sales are still below year-ago levels by as much as 50 percent. In addition, nearly all current sales are of previously owned homes. As a result, housing starts are at a virtual stand still as builders react to stalled sales and declining new home prices. Manufacturing Respondents to the September Business Outlook Survey report that business conditions in the local manufacturing sector are unchanged from August. Third District industry continues to exhibit the lingering weakness that has been evident for the last seven months. While reports of improvement in manufacturing conditions have been on the rise recently, there are still no firm indications that the industrial sector has begun to really recover. New orders and shipments show modest growth, their first gains since June, but shipments have again outpaced new orders and forced producers' backlogs down further. Cutbacks in both working hours and the factory work force are reported again this month, and widespread reports of stock level reductions indicate that liquidation of manufacturing inventories has not yet showed. Survey participants are still highly optimistic that a recovery will occur within six months, but appear to be maintaining a cautious stance while awaiting further signs of strength. Nearly 80 percent of the businessmen polled are looking for improved conditions over the next six months. New orders are expected to take off, and, with shipments projected to show slightly less growth, growing backlogs and longer delivery times are foreseen. Producers say the anticipated spurt in activity between now and March will push payrolls and working hours upward and bring inventories into check. But, reflecting continued caution, there is little stock building planned, and capital spending increases will be kept to a minimum. Industrial prices are holding steady again in September, having shown little inflationary movement at all since April. Flat input and finished good prices are reported at well over 80 percent of responding firms this month. As for the next six months, the projected turnaround in manufacturing activity is expected to rejuvenate inflation but manufacturers foresee only moderate increases in both the cost of raw materials and the prices they charge for their own products. Retail Department store sales, which appear to have stabilized somewhat since the last Redbook, are mixed. The uncertainty about jobs and income that has kept consumers away from retail outlets all summer continues to put a damper on spending. Retail sales volume is now running from about one percent below to slightly above that of a year ago, but well below the expectations of merchants. Retailers had been looking for a "back to school" surge in September to pump up sales. Current reports, however, have these soft goods moving sluggishly and most other lines showing even less life. Looking ahead, weak sales volume is expected to linger on until a projected holiday surge in December. End-of year forecasts are in the 1 to 4 percent range. A Director of this bank, however, notes that small gains over last year's fourth-quarter sales will not be a strong positive signal, as last year's sales were less than robust. Nevertheless, contacts are "guardedly optimistic" that a weak recovery will finally take hold in three to four months, and that sales will climb by two to five percent above year-earlier levels by early spring. Merchants remain cautious about inventories, currently lean and generally below last year's levels, and plan to maintain the present tightness for at least the next six months. Finance Third District bankers report improved loan activity in September. Commercial lending inched upward this month, pushed along at least partly by increased distress borrowing that outweighed the recent shift toward long-term debt. According to banking contacts, the volume of business loans is ahead of year-ago figures by as much as 11 percent, slightly better than lenders had anticipated. Retail loans, held down by design for most of this year, have increased recently in response to lower interest rates, but are still well below last September's levels. As for the future, indications that recovery will be weak have changed bankers' outlooks for Third District lending activity. More distress borrowing is now expected to keep C&I loan volume on the rise in the near future, and growth in consumer loans is also projected to continue as long as interest rates don't begin to rise again. Area bankers have lowered their prime rate to 13.50 percent during September and foresee it dropping further if the recovery continues to sputter. Lenders are now predicting that the prime may go down to 12 percent before leveling off. The expected timing of the trough in interest rates has been pushed back into early 1983 when the projected recovery is forecast to be underway. Deposit flows in the Third District show a few signs of minor slippage. Time deposits are not as strong as in recent months, but are still 10 to 12 percent higher than a year ago. Demand deposits are reported to be mixed, with some bankers reporting a loss of deposit dollars to various interest bearing assets, including the new 7-31 day time deposit.