Overview There were some signs of improvement in District business conditions over the past six to eight weeks. Retail sales and traffic were up, as were retail prices and wages. Manufacturing showed moderate improvement. Both retailers and manufacturers remained optimistic about the next six months. Residential real estate sales increased, while prices in that sector were holding steady. At District ports, imports were higher and exports steady over the previous month. Financial institution activity changed little, while tourism declined. Agriculture was generally in good shape, though heavy rains and cool temperatures were slowing crop development in some areas. Consumer Spending Our regular mail survey indicated that District retail activity improved in recent weeks. Sales and shopper traffic apparently increased, as did wholesale and retail prices. Retailers reported higher employee wages but steady employment. Survey respondents were relatively optimistic about their prospects for the next six months. They anticipated increases in sales and in wholesale and retail prices. A large majority, however, expected no change in employment. Manufacturing Manufacturers indicated that District factory activity improved somewhat in past weeks. Respondents reported increases in shipments, new orders, exports, and raw materials prices and noted little change in other indicators. Government regulations and red tape, and also excess capacity, continued to be major problems for many manufacturers. Manufacturers were fairly optimistic about the next six months. They expected increases in most indicators, including employment, and suggested that finished goods inventories would fall. Ports Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that imports were generally higher in August compared with July, while exports remained about the same. Compared with a year ago, both imports and exports were generally higher. Export activity was expected to increase at the Port of Baltimore but to remain the same at the Ports of Charleston and Hampton Roads during the next six months. Tourism Hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity for August and early September declined from July and from a year ago. Most respondents attributed the decreases to the weather, the economy, and a Labor Day weekend that fell later than normal in the season. Respondents who reported increases attributed them to a pickup in convention bookings. About half of the respondents reported that fall bookings were slightly above last year's while the other half reported little change. Over half expected tourist activity to remain about the same throughout the fall. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that credit conditions were little changed over the last six weeks. Respondents stated that commercial loan demand weakened slightly. Consumer loan demand was said to be steady. Banks noted that loan rates fell for commercial, consumer, and mortgage loans. Respondents reported that demand in the mortgage sector picked up, but that the bulk of the activity involved the refinancing of home mortgages. Residential Real Estate Real estate agents contacted by telephone indicated that residential activity improved somewhat in much of the District over the past six weeks, but remained sluggish in some areas. Sales, on net, were up, while home prices were little changed. Many respondents suggested that sales of new homes were stronger than sales of existing homes, though respondents in the Baltimore area indicated otherwise. Several respondents noted that activity was strongest for homes in the middle to low price range. Meanwhile, those in some areas suggested that demand for upscale homes, although still the weakest market, was beginning to increase. Agriculture Our contacts reported that District farm conditions were generally favorable in most areas. Fall harvesting activity was underway with normal progress in all areas except parts of South Carolina and Vest Virginia where heavy rains from Hurricane Andrew had delayed activity. Crops were reported to be in generally good condition, but crop development was termed slower than normal in Maryland and West Virginia because of unseasonably cool temperatures. Also in West Virginia, moisture-related disease reportedly damaged some crops.