Summary Economic weakness persists in California, and conditions are mixed in other District states. In California, cutbacks continue to be announced in aerospace and defense-related manufacturing. Furthermore, cutbacks in state and local government spending are expected to reduce employment growth in that sector. Outside of California, moderate improvement is reported in retail trade, non- defense manufacturing, and residential construction, with the strongest conditions reported in Utah and Idaho. Drought is threatening agriculture in certain sections of the Pacific Northwest. Overall business sentiment continues to decline. Little upward pressure on wages and prices is reported. Business Sentiment Pessimism is increasing among Twelfth District business leaders. Less than 20 percent of our respondents now expect the real economy to expand during the next four quarters at a rate of at least 2.5 percent. This proportion is down from one-third in July and one-half in June. Three-quarters of our respondents expect real output to expand, but at a rate below 2.5 percent. Wages and Prices Contacts continue to report little upward pressure on prices in District markets. Grocery prices are reported flat, with meat prices reported down 3 percent from a year earlier and produce prices reported down 9 percent. General merchandise and pharmacy price increases are running at 3.5 percent versus the 6 to 9 percent annual increases seen in 1991 and 1990. Aluminum prices are dropping due to weak demand and large inventories. Lumber prices, which decreased in July, however, have rebounded to high levels as result of Hurricane Andrew. Also, electricity prices are up in Oregon due to drought-related reductions in hydroelectric power. A 20 percent increase in wholesale electricity rates has been proposed in that state, which would increase average retail bills by 5 to l0 percent. Wage increases appear modest in most District industries. Increases in the retail sector are reported in the 3 percent range, while contacts in banking expect small increases in wages during the next 12 months. Little upward pressure on manufacturing wages is reported due to cutbacks in production and employment. Retail Trade and Services District retailers report sluggish conditions for soft goods in most markets. Most retailers are reported to be working to reduce inventories. Major grocery chains are reporting flat sales and declining earnings. Contacts in Oregon report that retail business has been slow, but still profitable, and retail sales in Arizona are reported to have improved. Retail activity in southern California, however, is reported to have deteriorated. Contacts report that tourist-related retail and service sector jobs are down in Los Angeles due to the riots. Some increases in auto sales in Oregon were reported for August, and contacts in Utah report good summertime new auto sales. A moderate rebound in auto sales is reported in Arizona. However, farm equipment sales are off 50 to 60 percent in Idaho due to the drought. The recent state budget settlement in California has reduced uncertainty about financing among local governments, but significant cuts in state assistance are expected to result in layoffs. Local governments in Washington have announced a hiring freeze, and state government employment is off in Oregon. Law firms are growing very slowly, and net job losses are expected in accounting. Health care employment continues to increase. Tourism in Hawaii for July was reported down due to discounted air fares within the 48 contiguous states that caused a large drop in California visitors. The effects of the recent Hawaiian hurricane are not yet known, but major damage was confined to the lesser populated island of Kauai. Manufacturing Job losses continued to be reported in defense, aerospace, and high- tech manufacturing. Major additional layoffs in these sectors were recently announced in southern California. Layoffs by defense manufacturers and airlines also are reported in Utah. Aviation production rates are dropping, with a small avionics manufacturer in Washington expecting a 10 to 15 percent reduction in its production over the next 12 months. In Washington, contacts report that Boeing's backlog of orders appears to be softening due to weak worldwide economic conditions. The company continues to win a large share of world-wide orders, however. Outside of these sectors, some modest improvement is noted. In Washington, contacts report improvement in food processing and non- military electronic equipment. In Oregon, heavy truck production is expanding to meet demand from Latin America. Production of computer printers is expected to expand in Washington and Oregon. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Drought conditions in Idaho are expected to lower farm income by 20 percent this year. Contacts from eastern Oregon report that drought and hot weather have resulted in a short supply of livestock pasture. Wheat yields are anywhere from 15 to 50 percent below a year earlier and are resulting in reduced grain shipments bound for Pacific Rim markets. However, the unusually sunny weather has produced sharp increases in tree fruit crops in Oregon and Washington. Lumber demand and prices have been boosted by reconstruction activity in Florida and Louisiana. Wood products production and employment, however, continue to deteriorate due to the lack of raw timber sales from public lands. Construction and Real Estate Construction activity is mixed across District markets. Contacts report that construction activity is stable in Washington and Alaska, but is weak in California and Hawaii. Homes and ranch properties are selling well in Oregon. One contact in Oregon, however, reports that several major nonresidential projects are on hold until next year. In the Puget Sound area, single family construction is 10 percent above a year earlier, but multi-family construction is 60 percent below a year earlier. Residential construction activity in eastern Washington and northern Idaho continues to rise in response to strong demand. Construction activity in California, however, continues to decline, particularly in nonresidential sectors. Residential markets in California are sluggish, with price decreases reported far higher priced properties. Financial Institutions Low interest rates are improving the profitability of District financial institutions, but demand remains soft for commercial, industrial, and consumer loans in most markets. The weakest loan demand is reported in California. Delinquency ratios for commercial real estate in California continue to rise. Deposit growth is reported relatively strong in Arizona, but loan demand has been sluggish except for increased interest in mortgage refinancings. Relatively stronger demand for consumer loans is reported in Oregon, and demand for both consumer and mortgage loans remains brisk in Utah and Idaho. Currently low interest rates have increased the level of mortgage refinancings across the District, but refinancings are still below the levels seen in early 1992. In California and Oregon, contacts report that conventional sources of financing have been almost completely out of the market for construction financing and long-term financing of commercial real estate.