Economic activity remains sluggish in the First District as both retailers and manufacturers await recovery. Most retailers contacted in mid-September experienced a mid-year lull after sales rose in the first quarter. Auto sales show no improvement, but housing activity has increased. Most manufacturing respondents report that sales and orders are equal to or slightly above 1991 levels, but a significant minority add that incoming business has weakened in recent weeks. Retail Two-thirds of First District retail contacts experienced sales declines in the summer from year-earlier levels. They attribute these declines to consumer uncertainty stemming from the regional employment situation and the upcoming election. Of those with sales increases, half believe that the economy is recovering; the other half attribute the sales improvement to discounting activity. The cost of goods to retailers and prices offered consumers remain unchanged with one exception. Lumber prices are said to have risen significantly in response to heightened demand from areas hit by Hurricane Andrew. Retailers still exercise tight control over inventories, although some indicated greater willingness to allow stocks to expand as declines in interest rates have lessened carrying costs. One-third of those contacted plan major increases in capital spending, while others report no change. Similarly, only one-third plan to expand employment; others will continue to reduce it by attrition. Retailers do not foresee any near-term change in prevailing conditions. Representatives of the Boston-area tourism industry report that visitor totals and the foreign share were above last summer's levels. Although hotel occupancy rates are up, room charges have not changed for over two years. Contacts attribute Boston's increased traffic to exceptionally cool weather and the Tall Ships; thus, these gains may have come at the expense of the region' s resort areas. Automobile Sales Auto dealerships report erratic but generally sluggish sales during the third quarter. Lacking confidence about the economy, consumers are reportedly stressing value: they are holding on to their current cars longer, responding to manufacturers' incentives when they do buy, and opting for used over new cars. The used car market is strong, and sellable used cars are said to be in short supply. Dealers are uncertain about the upcoming months. Residential Real Estate Residential real estate sales have been fairly strong over the past few months compared to a year ago. First-time home buyers account for the bulk of activity. Realtors attribute the increased sales volume to lower interest rates along with a perception among potential buyers that housing prices will not decline further. The condominium market continues to be weak. Realtors expect September and October to be busy, following the typical seasonal pattern. Manufacturing Most First District manufacturers contacted in the week after Labor Day report that sales and orders are even with or modestly above year-ago levels. However, one-third of the contacts experienced renewed weakness during July and August. Products for housing, health care, telecommunications and, until recently, the auto industry were described as relatively strong. Office machinery and computer-related services also showed some small improvement, with interest in new products offsetting slow economic growth. By contrast, orders for aircraft-related products are down significantly from year-ago levels, as some aircraft makers and airlines postpone deliveries. Government demand and several foreign markets are also said to be weakening. Since few manufacturers can count on significant sales growth, they report continuing efforts to cut costs and improve profits. Accordingly, they are keeping inventories tight and capital spending modest. In most cases, capital spending is equal to or below 1991 levels, and two contacts have delayed capital projects. Employment levels are generally flat to down from the beginning of the year, with declines ranging up to 10 percent. Almost half of the firms expect employment to continue to fall. Input prices are generally stable; despite ongoing efforts, manufacturers are finding it increasingly difficult to wring price concessions from suppliers. The manufacturers' sales prices are flat to down, with low-end products priced aggressively and high-end products more stable. A minority have succeeded in raising selected prices. While one manufacturer is more upbeat than at any time in the past two years, several describe themselves as more pessimistic than they were in early 1992. Most contacts expect little change from current near-stagnant conditions. They attribute the "anemic" pace of GDP growth to business reluctance to spend ahead of the recovery.