Summary District economic activity continues to increase slowly. Retailers and car dealers report increased sales from one year ago. Manufacturing reports indicate growth, while nonmanufacturing reports are more mixed. Residential construction activity still is up substantially from one year ago in some areas, while it has slowed in others. District loan demand remains weak, with large banks reporting a slight decline in loans outstanding during the past two months. District farmers report favorable harvest prospects, but concern over an early frost is mounting. Consumer Spending Retail sales are generally above those of last summer. Back-to-school sales in St. Louis and Louisville are up noticeably from last year, and contacts across the District report generally higher year-to-date sales as well. Price cutting by retailers was reported to be similar to last year's efforts. Inventories are at or below desired levels. Car and light truck sales are up moderately from last summer, and dealers expect to see slight increases through year-end. Manufacturing Employment opportunities at District manufacturing firms appear to have improved as reports indicate more hirings than layoffs. For example, a new poultry processor will move into Arkansas, initially employing 150 workers. In addition, a printing company will employ 100 people in its new eastern Mississippi plant. A Memphis steel processor will add up to 150 jobs as it expands its facility. Also in Memphis, a tire manufacturer has recalled 140 workers because of increased sales, and a chewing gum manufacturer has added 170 jobs in its expansion. Cutbacks continue to occur in the defense industry. In particular, a St. Louis-based defense contractor announced its consolidation of six divisions into two, eliminating 170 St. Louis jobs immediately. The jobs of 7.000 St. Louis employees of this firm, however, became more secure with an announcement by the President of his support for the firm's aircraft sale to a foreign buyer. Unrelated to defense, a plant manufacturing jeans in northwestern Mississippi will close this month, releasing 550 employees. Nonmanufacturing District nonmanufacturing employment reports can be characterized as mixed. An anticipated loss of 400 jobs occurred at a Louisville health care provider and insurer. Potentially offsetting these losses, however, are a travel agency's expansion of 100 jobs because of a new contract and a supermarket chain's addition of 200 employees this month because of a new store. Southern Illinois will gain 250 jobs when a new federal prison opens, and St. Louis will likely gain some jobs when it becomes one of the U.S. Postal Service's new regional headquarters under a reorganization plan. A recent survey of Eighth District firms reveals that almost half of those surveyed experienced no change in sales during the second quarter and do not expect to change their inventory levels during the third quarter. In an unrelated survey by a temporary employment agency, half of the Memphis firms surveyed indicate that they will increase employment in the fourth quarter of 1992, a proportion more than double the national average. Construction and Real Estate District residential construction activity is mixed. Single-family home permits in July were substantially above their year-ago levels in St. Louis and Little Rock, but were down in Memphis and flat in Louisville. New and existing home sales, meanwhile, remain above their year-ago levels throughout the District. Contacts note that the average selling price of new and existing homes has risen in recent months. One Memphis realtor interprets recent sales trends as evidence that consumer confidence has improved, noting that purchases have been spread evenly between first-time homebuyers and the move-up market. Banking Total loans outstanding at 12 large District banks declined slightly in July and August after remaining flat in May and June. Business and real estate loans declined over the period after increases in the prior period. Consumer loans, which had declined 0.8 percent in May and June, increased 2.2 percent in July and August. Bankers continue to describe loan demand as soft. Agriculture and Natural Resources While crop prospects are mostly favorable throughout the District, cloudy and cool weather in August has hampered maturity in many areas. As a result, farmers are increasingly concerned about the effects of an early frost, particularly for corn in Illinois, Indiana and Kentucky. Although Hurricane Andrew caused minor damage to the corn, cotton and soybean crops in some Mississippi counties, it brought beneficial moisture to many areas of Arkansas and Tennessee. Southern pine lumber producers report that production and exports remain well above last year's vigorous pace. They also report that inventory rebuilding is occurring in anticipation of a relatively strong fourth quarter, partly in response to rebuilding in the aftermath of Andrew.