Economic activity in the Third District appeared to edge up slightly in August and early September, according to reports from area businesses. Manufacturers noted continued gains, on balance, with increases in orders and shipments. Retailers generally indicated that sales picked up in late August and early September from the summer pace although the year-over-year increase was slight. Bankers said loan volume outstanding has been virtually steady in recent weeks, with business lending flat, and gains in residential mortgage lending offset by declines in consumer installment lending. Realtors indicated that home sales continued to exceed last year's rate, but demand for office space remained weak. Looking ahead, Third District business contacts expect little change from current trends. Manufacturers expect orders and shipments to continue to rise. Retailers forecast a seasonal increase in sales for the fall but only a small year-over-year gain. Bankers generally expect little or no growth in overall lending in the months immediately ahead. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the Third District continued on the rise in late August and early September, according to industrial firms contacted for this report. While a little more than half of the companies indicated their business was steady, just over one-fourth said they had stepped up activity in recent weeks. Activity appeared to be steady or rising in nearly all major industries in the Third District with the exception of transportation equipment where orders and shipments were reported to be falling. Overall, however, area manufacturers indicated that shipments and new orders were moving up although order backlogs were declining. Employment appeared to be steady as most firms were maintaining constant payrolls, and cutbacks at some plants were being offset by increase at others. Looking ahead, a majority of Third District manufacturers expect business to remain on an upward trend through the coming winter. On balance, they plan to step up shipments and they anticipate an increase in orders that will boost backlogs. Employment increases are planned by approximately one-third of the firms contacted while half intend to maintain current payrolls. Retail Third District retailers generally indicated that sales picked up in recent weeks for the back-to-school shopping period, although year- over-year gains appeared to be slight; results varied among stores, and reported increases were 5 percent or less, in dollar terms. Merchants continued to cite lackluster economic conditions as a retraining influence on consumer spending. In general, Third District retail executives expect sales to move up seasonally through the fall, but they anticipate only a modest increase for the period compared to last year. While several merchants said they planned expanded advertising and promotional campaigns for the balance of the year, they do not appear to be boosting sales plans. Most said they will attempt to keep inventories lean. Finance Total loan volume outstanding at major Third District banks was described as stable by bankers contacted in early September. Most banks gave similar reports indicating that commercial and industrial lending was flat, consumer installment loans were edging down, and residential real estate loan volumes were continuing to rise. Bankers noted increases in mortgage lending for new purchases as well as refinancings and home equity loans. Several bankers said their institutions were actively seeking new business borrowers but finding loan demand weak. Area bankers anticipate little growth in lending ahead. Some speculate that consolidations and restructurings by business firms are resulting in fundamental reductions in their credit needs and that a significant increase in business borrowing will not occur until a trend of strong economic growth is well under way. Consumer loan demand will pick up, according to bankers, with a resumption of growth in employment and income. Real Estate Residential realtors reported that home sales during the summer were slightly above sales in the year-ago period, and the pace seemed to be continuing. However, they noted that there are a large number of homes on the market, keeping prices in check. There are few reports of price appreciation, and realtors indicated that there is a great deal of variation in trends from place to place, with prices firm in some areas and falling in others. In particular, real estate agents said prices are dropping for very expensive homes and for homes in some resort areas. Realtors said that both existing and new homes are selling at a better pace than they did last year, although it was noted that some builders who announced price increases in the past few months have seen traffic fall off at their developments. Demand for office space remains weak, according to commercial realtors. They estimate that vacancy rates this summer reached about 16 percent in central Philadelphia and varied from 13 to 27 percent in suburban areas. Realtors said ongoing consolidation by local companies is continuing to reduce demand for office space. Older buildings are especially vulnerable to declining demand, according to realtors; they estimate that the vacancy rate in Class B buildings is about 22 percent and that rents are being reduced from 10 to 40 percent depending on the age and condition of the building.