Summary The pace of the recovery in the Seventh District slowed in August and early September, with some sectors, notably autos, actually weakening. District manufacturing activity generally continued to move higher, albeit slowly and less evenly than in recent months. Car production did not meet earlier expectations, and several auto parts manufacturers expressed concern about the possibility of a further slowdown in the fourth quarter. Retail sales and housing activity in the region have held up relatively well in the face of sluggish employment data. However, several contacts shared the perception that hiring, capital spending, and consumer durable goods purchases may have entered another "wait-and-see" phase. The prospects for bumper corn and soybean harvests have risen in recent weeks. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity edged higher in August, but at a slower pace than earlier in the summer. Purchasing managers' surveys indicated that expansion continued for a slim majority of District manufacturers. The index for the Chicago survey slipped slightly in August on a seasonally adjusted basis, but only after a relatively large increase in July, and the level of the index remained higher than in the nation as a whole. The overall results of the Detroit survey have been generally consistent with those in Chicago, although the Detroit index has been more closely linked to trends in auto production, which weakened in July and August. The Milwaukee survey had been providing the strongest results in the District earlier in 1992, but this survey's overall index also indicated a loss of momentum in recent months, reaching a level consistent with slow growth in production. Separately, an August survey of small manufacturers in Wisconsin indicated little change in expectations for business activity over the next 6 to 12 months, with a majority expecting moderate growth over this period. Reports from individual manufacturers indicated that several sectors remained soft, although appliance production moved higher and the relatively improved heavy-duty truck market showed few signs of a slowdown. A large manufacturer of construction machinery reported that dealer orders for heavy equipment weakened further in August, although orders for light machinery have held up relatively well. A construction industry analyst reported that retail sales of construction machinery in the District were somewhat better than the national average. Retail sales of farm machinery continued to decline from year-earlier levels, and one District farm equipment manufacturer cut production plans for the third time this year. A large appliance producer reported a record July shipments month, and expected continued improvement in the overall market in 1993. Positive signals continued to emanate from the heavy-duty truck market. A manufacturer of parts used in heavy-duty trucks reported that the market has been continuing to strengthen, citing pent-up demand, confidence in the future growth of the freight hauling industry, and sales incentives. Net orders slipped in August, but only after a sharp jump in July. and this producer expected continued gains in its own sales and production in 1993. A manufacturer of heavy-duty trucks reported that the improvement in District demand has exceeded the national average. A manufacturer of fluid power equipment used in a variety of heavy industrial machinery stated that the recovery in its markets had accelerated since the spring. Autos Major automakers in the District characterized recent sales trends as disappointing, and car production failed to meet earlier expectations. Increases in sales and production of light trucks continued to outperform those for cars during the month of August, but one large automaker stated that dealer orders for light trucks began to lag sales in recent weeks. Another domestic automaker said that erosion in consumer willingness to purchase cars has played a more important role than income trends in restraining car sales recently, and noted that showroom traffic continued to improve while sales closure rates weakened. Auto producers agreed that inventories generally remained lean, and production would respond quickly to any future sales pickup that might occur. An auto industry analyst stated that some, but not all, of the production lost due to a recent labor dispute would be made up in the fourth quarter. This dispute was resolved at modest short-term cost to District activity, but it reflected a deeper long-term problem facing the District economy. One auto parts manufacturer stated that inventory building prior to next year's renegotiation of the national labor contract could boost production in the first half of 1993. Consumer Spending/Housing Retail sales and housing activity held up relatively well in recent weeks. One large retailer stated that year-over-year sales comparisons in District markets showed a positive trend in recent months. This contact noted that sales gains were being led by big- ticket items. Inventories at this firm were reported to be again in line with plan, after reaching undesirably high levels earlier In the summer, and the firm has stepped up its purchasing. Another large retailer reported that, after accounting for the late Labor Day holiday, underlying sales growth rose in August and early September. Durable goods sales showed above-average gains, led by appliances and home improvement products. The late Labor Day holiday was often cited as a factor constraining August sales comparisons. However, a large retailer and a bank each noted that a renewed wave of mortgage refinancing also played a role, because upfront fees postponed improvement in borrower cash flow. Renewed declines in mortgage interest rates have been accompanied by scattered signs of strengthening in housing activity, although the increase does not appear to be as robust as in the first quarter. A realtors association reported that sales activity among its membership had strengthened in recent months, but was uncertain about the importance of lower mortgage interest rates in the improvement. One of the largest realtors in the District reported that transaction volume slipped in August on a seasonally adjusted basis, but only after significant gains in June and July. Recent declines in mortgage interest rates were followed by a modest revival in housing activity in Western Michigan, according to banks and realtors in that area. A large producer of construction materials used in homebuilding reported that production increases prompted the use of second shifts at several plants. This contact noted that shipments gains in the District roughly matched the national pattern in recent months, after relative strength was noted in the District earlier in the year. Labor Markets Recent employment reports have been subject to a variety of special factors, but still suggested a slowing recovery in District labor markets. Both establishment survey and household survey data indicate that the recovery in total District employment lost some momentum in recent months, although the underlying trend in household survey data has signaled a more robust rebound than the establishment survey. Employment changes in Illinois and Michigan have been weak relative to those in other District states, largely due to a continuing downturn in the two largest metropolitan areas in the District. Excluding these areas, employment has reached pre- recession levels, although the upward momentum slowed during recent months. Private surveys suggested that hiring plans have weakened since the second quarter, but not significantly, and hiring in the Midwest remained stronger than the national average. Temporary help firms reported rising sales gains, and placements in the District continued to run ahead of the national average, but one firm expressed concern about recent economic trends. This contact also stated that demand in smaller metropolitan areas has significantly exceeded demand in large cities. Agriculture The fall harvest will be delayed this year due to slower maturing crops, but the prospects for a bumper harvest continue to improve as concerns for an early frost ease. The latest weather forecasts discount the likelihood of an early, crop-damaging frost. If that is the case, the fall corn and soybean harvest in District states is likely to be the second largest on record and up a sixth from last year.