Overview Contacts in the Sixth District reported that economic activity expanded quite slowly through Labor Day. Merchants recorded steady to slightly higher sales, and factories were generally busier than earlier in the summer. Home sales and construction improved in most of the District, but apartment development and commercial construction was flat. Except for the recent surge in refinancing, business and consumer loan demand at District banks remains stalled. Wages have been relatively stable under conditions of job uncertainty, and attempts to raise product prices have met with little success. A summary of Hurricane Andrew's economic impact on south Florida and Louisiana is presented in the final section. Consumer Spending Retailers reported marginal sales increases in August compared with year-ago levels. Back-to-school sales generally met retailers' conservative expectations. Discount stores continue to post the best gains, led by sales of apparel and other nondurable goods. Looking ahead, merchants are not expecting significant gains over last year's lackluster Holiday season. Auto sales have been mixed to only slightly higher, but most dealers are comfortable with the relatively low inventories of 1992 models still on the lots. Convention traffic in most states is exceeding year-ago levels and is expected to remain strong into next year. Tourism enjoyed moderate increases through late summer, bolstered by the air fare wars and an influx of European visitors responding to sharp declines in the dollar. Manufacturing A large majority of manufacturing contacts reported steady to higher orders, production, and shipments. However, only a quarter of these contacts added to employment rolls or lengthened the workweek in August. Inventories of material inputs and finished goods continue to drift downward, mostly by design. However, firms that rely on NASA or defense contracts reported decreasing orders and are not optimistic about the outlook over the next six months. Petroleum industry suppliers stated that the energy business remains slow. Construction Most realtors noted sales gains for starter homes and some have seen increased interest in the trade-up market. Ample existing home inventories have kept prices stable even as the number of transactions has risen. Responding to market conditions, builders are putting up more low-to-mid priced homes and expect slow but steady improvement for the rest of the year. Although there have been some reports of rising occupancy rates and modestly increasing effective rental rates, multifamily construction has yet to respond. On the commercial side, some brokers sense that effective rental rates are beginning to firm. Even so, rental rates remain far below those required for speculative development. Financial Services Bankers around the region reported that consumer and business loan demand was generally flat in July and August. However, almost all contacts are seeing a deluge of mortgage refinancing that may eclipse the record volume posted earlier this year. Commercial loan activity was generally weak. Several business contacts noted that increased regulatory burdens and conservative lending practices continue to hamper access to credit. Consumer loans were mixed with some contacts reporting increases in auto loans in July. Wages and Prices Materials prices for most manufacturers were steady to slightly higher in August. However, firms have generally been unable to pass these through on final products because of sluggish demand and competitive pressure. Businesses across all sectors have not experienced upward wage pressures. Hurricane Andrew Hurricane Andrew devastated parts of southern Florida and sparsely populated south central Louisiana. However, after an initial period of disruption, a surge in economic activity is expected as rebuilding commences. South Florida will likely experience a local building boom. Retail sales will rise significantly in both states, and to a lesser extent, across the region. South Florida bankers are expecting new deposits and increased loan activity as insurance money and aid pours into the region to fund reconstruction. The extent of damage to oil and gas platforms off the Louisiana coast is still being assessed. According to most recent reports, about 200 installations show storm-related losses. Decisions regarding restoration of the most seriously damaged structures are pending. Natural gas prices, which had already been trending upward, were pushed sharply higher by the interruption in supply. In Florida, the lime, avocado, mango, and foliage plant crops were all severely damaged or destroyed. It will take several years to establish new production for many of the tree crops. Salt water intrusion into fields may delay planting of the winter vegetable crop. However, except for limes, fruit and vegetable prices have remained relatively stable as lost supplies have been displaced by imports. In Louisiana, 25 percent of the sugarcane crop was destroyed. The fishing and shrimping industries were also disrupted, and oyster harvesting has been suspended pending pollution test results. Although the affected areas may experience a net gain in jobs and income for one to two years, the stimulus from rebuilding activity is ultimately transitory and is not expected to displace the loss in agricultural and personal wealth incurred by large uninsured losses.