Overview The Southeast economy continued to grow at a moderate pace in late summer, according to contacts in the District. Merchants saw strong back-to-school sales increases and anticipate modest year-over-year growth in the remainder of the year. Similarly, manufacturers in a number of industries say that prospects remain bright. Tourism and business travel are surpassing last year's levels. Residential and commercial construction continue to expand in most of the region. Bankers report weak consumer loan demand but moderate to strong commercial loan demand. Most contacts report little change in wage and price pressures from the last Beige Book period. Consumer Spending Most retailers in the District reported that back-to-school sales have been excellent; however, a few said that sales were below their expectations. Some merchants also said that inventories are a little heavy but are not a great concern at this point. Both men's and women's apparel sales were disappointing and failed to move above last year's levels in most of the District, but children's apparel and home-related product sales were stronger. Most retailers say they are optimistic and anticipate strong holiday sales. Manufacturing Manufacturers report little current change in plant employment, on balance, from the last Beigebook period. Increasing textile exports are benefiting some regional firms and electronic equipment and computer manufacturers report increasing order backlogs, causing them to add to factory payrolls. Regional metal producers foresee accelerating demand for metal truck and automobile parts, as General Motors and Ford begin to invest a total of $360 million in two assembly plants in Georgia. Reports indicate that orders at regional building material suppliers have increased due to damage from recent hurricanes both in and outside the region. However, orders and purchases have slowed at several apparel manufacturers in recent weeks. Tourism and Business Travel This summer's tourism and business travel appears to be outpacing that of last year. International traffic through Miami International Airport has increased at double-digit rates over year-ago levels. Our contacts there attribute this in part to the return of European visitors. International passengers disembarking in Atlanta increased nearly 10 percent for the year's first half. Both business and leisure hotel occupancy rates are well above year-ago levels in central Florida. Tourism officials expect that new attractions being introduced will further stimulate activity there. Special casino gambling packages and tours continue to boost visits to Mississippi's Gulf Coast. Construction According to most real estate contacts, single-family home sales continued to run modestly above healthy year-ago levels during July and early August in most parts of the region. District realtors believe that the housing market is being fueled by a combination of low mortgage rates and good job growth. Home inventories continue low in several markets, but prices have stabilized in most parts of the region. Single-family residential construction is said to be maintaining a healthy pace in most areas. Both realtors and builders anticipate that the recent sales and building pace will continue through the remainder of the year. Real estate contacts again reported growing commercial and multifamily construction. The majority of new commercial construction remains build-to-suit. Low vacancy rates in several areas are said to be driving apartment construction. Real estate professionals anticipate that both commercial and multifamily construction will continue to increase during the remainder of 1995. Financial Services Bankers give mixed reports on overall loan demand. Consumer loan demand is generally characterized as soft. Several bankers noted that auto loan demand, in particular, continues the deceleration that emerged over the summer. Commercial lending, on the other hand, continues to grow. Most contacts reported moderate to strong demand for commercial and industrial, as well as commercial real estate loans. Several lenders noted very strong demand from small and medium size companies. Wages and Prices Most contacts continue to report that wage pressures remain low. Shortages of skilled workers are becoming less frequent. While reports on prices paid for materials have been mixed, most businesses expect finished goods prices to increase only moderately over the next few months.