Business activity in the First District is generally expanding, but more slowly than a year ago. Both retailers and manufacturers expect continued slow growth in coming months. Price pressures are reportedly moderate. The residential real estate market is sluggish in most of the New England states. Retail This summer's hot weather appears to have curbed shopping activity in New England. First District retailers of hard and soft goods report disappointing, below-plan sales in July and August, ranging from level to 8 percent gains over year-earlier levels. Home improvement and lumber chains cite sales declines of up to 20 percent, which they attribute to a slowdown in the building industry and the economy. Retail respondents continue to express concern about consumer confidence; their expectations for the remainder of the year range from moderate sales decreases to 10 percent gains. Price reports for materials are mixed, with declines in lumber and cotton prices and increases for fabric, foam, and paint. Retailers say they and their manufacturing suppliers are hesitant to inch up prices, given this summer's slow shopper traffic. Two contacts plan to expand stores or open new ones; none, however, plans to increase employment. Manufacturing Most First District manufacturing contacts report that sales are ahead of year-ago levels. Computer-related demand is very strong in most cases, and gains are reported also for aircraft, medical equipment, and items related to nonresidential construction. By contrast, makers of consumer durables, including auto parts, home furnishings, and jewelry, report that sales are softening, with some experiencing declines relative to a year ago. Apparel-related textile sales remain sluggish. Over the past year, manufacturers have experienced higher costs for a number of materials, including petrochemicals, paper and packaging, metals, and cotton fibers. In most instances, however, cost increases now appear to be abating; some manufacturers attribute this change to soft-demand. One-third of the contacts report that they have raised selling prices over the past year, mostly in the range of 2 to 8 percent. Remaining prices are generally flat, with some decreases noted for computers and medical equipment. Most respondents foresee little change in the size of their work forces in coming months. Those who are hiring report that the only area of difficulty is finding qualified specialists in computer-related fields. Labor costs appear to be rising only modestly. The majority of contacts report that capital spending is increasing, with some making very substantial investments to expand capacity and/or improve productivity. Two contacts mentioned added investments in Mexico. Manufacturers generally expect the U.S. economy to grow rather slowly over the next year, with little inflation. Most feel that the macroeconomic environment and industry-specific factors will create reasonably good results for their company, but two said an interest rate cut would be desirable. Residential Real Estate Most contacts continue to report sluggish sales of residential real estate in the First District, although prospects are up slightly in the last two months. Respondents in Connecticut and Rhode Island are the most pessimistic, noting that sales activity is still at below- normal levels, while reports from Vermont point to improving conditions. Activity in Maine has bounced around, with the latest movement suggesting a slight slowdown. New Hampshire activity has leveled off. Contacts attribute a significant reduction in sales of existing homes in Massachusetts to newly-passed environmental regulations. For the first time in several years, sales of very high-priced homes and new construction in Massachusetts have slowed. The market for low-priced homes is reported to be in the best shape in all states, partly because of an expansion of low down-payment loans and other special credit programs. Nonbank Financial Services Investment management firms report increased assets under management in the last six weeks. The increases are due to the rising market value of the assets and strong sales of domestic equity funds, particularly small company and growth funds. Bond funds experienced small but positive inflows. Municipal bond funds continue to be in net liquidation because of investor concerns about tax reform. Most respondents report stable or increasing employment levels.