Summary Extended hot, humid weather weighed on District economic activity during August, but the underlying momentum remained positive and expectations seemed generally improved in recent weeks. The effects of the weather on retail sales were pervasive and negative on balance, but retailing contacts generally expected stronger sales over the balance of the year. Reports from realtors suggested that home sales continued to rise, while homebuilder optimism improved further. Manufacturing output stabilized, but production has yet to rebound significantly from a weak second quarter, partly due to the extreme summer heat. Employer hiring plans were little changed from the second quarter, and labor markets in the region remain relatively tight. Extremely warm temperatures and limited rainfall have probably trimmed the prospective corn and soybean harvest from earlier estimates. Industrial input price increases generally continued to ebb. Retail Sales Hot, humid weather dampened District retail sales growth in August, but the underlying momentum remained positive, and most retailing contacts remained optimistic about the balance of 1995. In late August, one large apparel retailer stated that "we're expecting a pretty good pop when this clears up;" hot weather delayed sales of newly arriving fall merchandise, but boosted summer clearance. A large general merchandise chain characterized its overall inventory as "in extremely good shape," partly due to favorable clearance sales. This contact reported that sales gains over the Labor Day weekend, while mixed by merchandise category, were generally in line with the growth pace during August. Reports from home improvement and building material store chains suggested that hot weather slowed construction and demand for lumber in the region in August, constraining a rebound from a weak second quarter. Most of these retailers remained optimistic about sales over the balance of 1995; one stated at the end of August that "our order files are full, and the trend is real strong right now." A used car auction observer noted that prices have risen in recent months, and stated that "we are expecting the balance of the third quarter to be real strong." A survey of Michigan retailers suggested that sales growth increased in recent months, while inventory plans rose further. This survey's organizer stated that "optimism has reached its highest level since March." Housing/Construction Reports from realtors indicated that existing home sales continued to strengthen. A survey showed further improvement in homebuilders' sales expectations during August, continuing a rebound that began in May. A 'parade of homes' recently conducted in one large metropolitan area experienced lower traffic and sales than expected, although the homebuilder association involved ascribed most of the shortfall to the weather. This contact expected sales and traffic to strengthen over the balance of the year on a seasonally adjusted basis; "no great upswing, mind you, just some improvement." A large homebuilder focused on entry-level homes reported sharply higher sales gains in July and August, however, and boosted construction plans for the balance of the year. A homebuilder supply store chain stated that "most of our customers are expecting a big finish to 1995." Manufacturing District manufacturing output stabilized in July and August, but has yet to rebound significantly following a decline in the second quarter. District purchasing managers' surveys showed little significant change in orders or output in recent months, but inventories leveled off while employment firmed up. District steel production strengthened from July to August, in contrast to its monthly decline in the previous four years. Part of the recent increase reflected the resumption of output at several large facilities taken down for repairs in July, but output remained above year-earlier levels in both July and August. Several auto suppliers reported that purchasing delays were running longer than "normal" for the early stages of the third quarter, and while the automotive component of the Detroit purchasing managers' survey improved in August, it remained relatively weak. In late August, however, a steelmaker said that "after a slow start-up, auto output is now running about as expected," and auto suppliers' responses to Western Michigan purchasing managers' surveys also strengthened significantly in late August. Reports from capital goods producers grew increasingly mixed, after their output remained relatively strong in the first half of the year. Current build plans point to a modest decline in heavy-duty truck assemblies in the third quarter, and again in the fourth quarter. One large heavy-duty truck manufacturer stated that while net orders have fallen sharply with higher order cancellations, new order volumes have simply been "moderating." A large machine tool manufacturer stated that demand from automakers remained robust, but "seems to have lost some of its earlier urgency." Labor Markets A recent survey suggested that Midwest employers' hiring plans were little changed in the third quarter. These plans remained high by historical standards, consistent with continued positive employment growth in the region, and stronger among manufacturers than the overall average. Another survey showed the share of Midwest employers planning to add mid-management and professional staff was little changed following a sharp increase in the first half of the year, and this indicator remained at one of its highest levels since the late 1970s. A large temporary help company reported that demand from manufacturing firms strengthened in August to a greater extent than expected for the time of year. This contact stated that growth in demand for temporary help, while slower than in 1994, was still consistent with positive growth in overall employment in its region. A permanent placement firm concentrating on manufacturing occupations stated that placements rose significantly in August, primarily in occupations closely tied to current trends in production. A number of construction and manufacturing contacts stated that hot weather reduced production hours in July and August, however. Discussions with help-wanted advertising managers in the region revealed little significant change in space or rates in the last month, with advertising remaining at high levels. Agriculture Crop conditions remain quite variable around the District. However, extremely warm temperatures and limited rainfall have probably trimmed the prospective corn and soybean harvest from earlier estimates. Recent reports also suggest that the Great Lakes region had a smaller than expected harvest for vegetables, mostly for processing, due to the extreme summer heat. Prices Industrial input price increases generally continued to abate. District purchasing managers' surveys suggested that industrial input prices flattened out in June, July, and August. Packaging materials price increases have dissipated, after exploding in 1994 and early 1995. While varying by grade, paper prices paid by packaging firms have generally leveled out following their substantial gains over the past year. One packaging company stated that "the latest annual paper price hike letter seems to be delayed; over the past year, I've been getting one of these every two months." One packaging company saw little sign of any new decline in prices among a wide variety of paper grades, except for corrugated scrap, where prices have fallen by 50 percent over the past two months. Commodity thermoplastic resin prices continued to decline in August, and an industry analyst expected further declines in the balance of 1995. Prices for stretch film plastic purchased by area packaging companies have fallen roughly 20 percent in the past few months, according to one contact, but still remain about 40 percent above year-earlier levels. Building materials price increases have gained greater headway, however.