Overview The rate of expansion in the Fifth District appears to have changed little in late July and August. Retailers and service producers reported that growth slowed in their sectors, but manufacturers and financial industry contacts reported that growth picked up. Residential and commercial real estate contacts reported little change in their sectors. Contacts at area ports reported increased activity, and employment agencies saw stronger demand for temporary workers. Tourism industry sources reported that business was down from July. Government contacts reported slower state revenue growth. Agricultural conditions deteriorated somewhat. Retail Trade Indicators of retail activity growth decreased slightly in August from their July levels, according to preliminary results from a mail survey of District retailers. Survey respondents reported that their sales, including those of big-ticket items, changed little. They indicated that employment decreased slightly; wages grew more slowly; shopper traffic decreased; and inventories were higher. Survey respondents reported that retail prices rose somewhat faster in August than in July. They foresaw decreased demand for their products, and they expected their prices to be unchanged during the next six months. Service Production Indicators of service-sector activity growth decreased in August from their July levels, according to preliminary results from a mail survey of District service producers. Survey respondents indicated that employment and wage growth slowed and that revenues changed little. They reported that their prices rose faster in August than in July. They expected the growth in demand for their services to fall during the next six months, and they expected their prices to rise faster. Manufacturing Indicators of factory growth increased in August from their July levels, according to preliminary results from a mail survey of Fifth District manufacturers; this was the first such increase since March. Survey respondents reported that shipments, new orders, and the workweek increased; order backlogs and employment changed little. They were more optimistic about growth in the workweek and wages during the next six months, but their expectations about shipments and employment changed little from July. Manufacturers indicated that finished goods and raw materials prices rose more slowly in August than in July, and at rates below the general inflation rate. Respondents expected their prices to rise somewhat more slowly during the next six months than they had expected in July. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity in August was below that of July but above that of a year ago. At coastal areas, visitors were driven away by Hurricane Felix and other tropical storms. Fall bookings were up compared to a year ago, and contacts expected better-than-normal business and unchanged prices during the next six months. Port Activity Representatives at District ports indicated that import levels in July were higher than those in June and a year ago. Export levels in July were unchanged from June but were higher than those a year ago. Contacts expected that both exports and imports would increase during the next six months. Temporary Employment A telephone survey of Fifth District temporary employment agencies indicated that the demand for temporary workers was higher in August than in July or a year ago. Contacts expected demand during the next six months to be greater than usual. Temporary workers' wages rose faster than the general price level during the past year, although most contacts continued to expect wages to stabilize during the next six months. Finance District financial institutions reported that credit market activity increased somewhat during the past six weeks. Interest rates fell slightly for consumer, commercial, and mortgage loans. Demand increased for consumer and commercial loans and fell slightly for mortgage loans. Residential Real Estate According to a telephone survey of District real estate agents and homebuilders, residential real estate activity was unchanged in late July and August. Housing starts, building permits, and buyer traffic were stable over the period. Home sales were steady, but contacts indicated that lower- to middle-priced homes continued to sell better than expensive homes. Lumber prices rose, but other building material prices changed little. One contact in North Carolina reported that skilled labor was in short supply. Commercial Real Estate District contacts reported that commercial real estate activity changed little in late July and August. Leasing activity was unchanged, although vacancy rates declined. Commercial rents were unchanged, except in South Carolina and Virginia, where they increased. The availability of prime office space tightened in most District cities, and contacts reported shortages of such space in North Carolina. Contacts continued to report little new construction. State Revenues State government contacts reported lower tax revenue growth in July. Compared with June, real revenue growth was lower in the District of Columbia and West Virginia and was unchanged in the other Fifth District states. Agriculture District agricultural conditions worsened in recent weeks according to agricultural analysts. Near-record temperatures and below-normal rainfall reduced soybean, cotton, and peanut yield prospects, although analysts expected near-record corn yields. Tobacco poundage and quality were below average, especially in the Carolinas. Pastures were in poor condition in some areas of the District. In South Carolina, recent heavy rains caused flooding and minor crop damage; the state also suffered the worst outbreak of southern pine beetle on record, causing the loss of $70 million of pine timber.