Summary The District economy continues to grow at a pace largely unchanged from recent reports. While plant closings, employee layoffs and sales declines are still occurring, they appear to have been mostly offset by plant expansions, new hiring and sales gains. In a survey of District small businesses, most foresee little change in economic activity over the last half of this year. Although new housing permits around the District, except in Memphis, are still below last year's record levels, the pace of issuance has picked up in recent months. Nonresidential construction appears to be rising in Little Rock, while it continues to grow steadily in Louisville. Total loans outstanding at large District banks continue to increase. The hot, dry weather has hurt the yield potential of some crops in many areas and has caused significant losses in the poultry industry. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity District economic activity is little changed from recent reports. While some note plant closings and layoffs, others see increasing sales and pockets of tight labor markets. A telecommunications firm reports gains in employment levels because of new contracts it has negotiated. After a reported decline in the District's wood furniture industry, a contact now states that it appears poised for an upturn. Contacts at firms fabricating metal and manufacturing commercial hardware report production at "full throttle." Sales at firms in many industries-prefabricated metal buildings, electric motors, brick manufacturers and scrap metal, for instance-are up on average between 7 percent and 15 percent so far this year. One contact from northwest Mississippi stressed that labor markets are still very tight in the area, leading some companies to lure employees from other companies. Reports from Memphis and St. Louis relate instances of fast food restaurants posting help wanted signs. There are some areas of decline, though. Reported layoffs from downsizing and plant closings are scattered throughout the District; such layoffs are slightly more concentrated in durable goods producers than in other industries. A few auto parts manufacturers and makers of industrial boilers and air conditioners point to declining sales as the reason for the employment losses. Some nondurable goods manufacturers also report recent setbacks. An apparel manufacturer announced layoffs because of declining market share. A food producer, although undergoing a plant renovation, is laying off workers as part of a nationwide downsizing effort. Outlook A survey of about 225 small businesses in the Eight District found that most expect little change in business conditions over the last half of 1995, although the number expecting the business climate to worsen outnumbered those who expect a more favorable outlook by almost two to one. A little more than half of firms do not plan to change their selling prices over the next three months, with about 20 percent planning to raise prices, less than 3 percent planning to reduce prices, and the remainder uncertain. More than 75 percent of surveyed firms plan no change in employment levels over the next three months, with 16 percent planning to add and another 5 percent planning to reduce the number of employees. Real Estate and Construction Although residential permits on a year-to-date basis continue to be below last year's record levels in all major District metropolitan areas except Memphis, where they are up about 6 percent, the gap between this year and last appears to be narrowing. Louisville, Little Rock and St. Louis all report permit levels down between 10 percent and 17 percent, but these rates of decline are slowing. Sales in St. Louis, however, continue to be strong, as turnover times have shortened. New nonresidential construction is up in Little Rock and Louisville, relatively flat in St. Louis and down in Memphis so far this year. Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at 12 large District banks continue to increase. Total loans outstanding rose 2.6 percent between mid-June and mid-August, after rising 1.9 percent in the prior two-month period. Real estate loan growth is responsible for much of the growth in total lending, as it rose 4.8 percent between mid-June and mid-August and 2.8 percent between mid-April and mid-June. Commercial and industrial lending has tapered off somewhat, rising just 0.5 percent in the most recent two-month period after a 3.1 percent increase in the prior two-month period. Consumer loan growth is soft, rising 0.8 percent from mid-June to mid-August after declining 3.5 percent between mid-April and mid-June. Agriculture and Natural Resources Hot, dry weather has been the rule rather than the exception for most of August, although showers were widespread enough to keep crops in mostly fair to good condition. The heat has caused poultry losses numbering in the tens of thousands in Arkansas and Mississippi and has also damaged the cotton crop in many of these areas. In addition, many Delta cotton farmers report an outbreak of insects, causing them to incur additional crop-related expenses. In one Mississippi county, insects reportedly destroyed 30 percent of the crop and severely damaged another 40 percent. Southern pine lumber producers report that year-to-date orders, production and shipments are all down 3 percent to 4 percent from last year's levels.