The Ninth District is stilt experiencing growth in many sectors but softness is evident in a few. Residential, commercial and heavy building continues to show strength. Business for mining and energy firms remains favorable, with increased oil drilling giving western North Dakota an extra boost. In forest products, paper mills are pressing their output limits, while lumber and building board producers report increased output compared to the spring. As the summer has worn on, favorable weather has improved the prospects for district farmers. Tourist spending is up in the eastern half of the district, but retail and auto sales are generally described as soft. Manufacturing sales are not increasing as rapidly as a year ago. Employment growth is modest; some shortages of skilled and entry- level workers are reported and unemployment rates remain low. Wage increases reportedly are small, as are price increases, and manufacturers report no delays in delivery of raw materials. Construction "Builders are having trouble finding enough carpenters and subcontractors to work on the homes being built right now. No one has time to take on another contract." That description of residential building in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area by a builder's association representative also characterizes home-building in many district communities. Industrial and commercial building is strong too. Numerous 50,000 to 60,000 square foot industrial or warehouse buildings are under construction in Minneapolis-St. Paul suburbs, where some 5 million square feet of retail space is also reportedly being built. New retail buildings are also going up in smaller cities from Escanaba, Mich., to Great Falls, Mont. Publicly let contracts in Minnesota and the Dakotas through July, largely for heavy projects, are even with 1994's near-record levels. Natural resource industries The oil boomlet continues in western North Dakota, with drilling for new wells up markedly from 1994 levels and production up somewhat. Iron ore shipments are at the highest level so far this decade, with shipments from Minnesota mines expected to hit 47 million tons. Copper mines are running at capacity. Lumber production is up from this spring, and mill operators report improved prices and sales. Hardwoods are the one exception. Building board plants continue to produce at capacity and have eliminated the sharp price discounts offered this spring. Paper mills are generally running flat out. Agriculture For district farmers, conditions are also better than last spring when adverse weather was threatening crops. Most crops are in good shape, in spite of some periods of intense heat and a few instances of destructive hail. While an early frost could still upset the apple cart, many observers expect yields of major crops to be near long-run averages, though somewhat below 1994's records. Combined with grain prices that are about 25 percent above 1994 levels, near- average yields will mean improved income and debt service capabilities for farmers. In livestock, hog prices have risen substantially from earlier in the year in spite of continuing high slaughter levels, and producers are generally making better profits. But cattle prices remain depressed. Manufacturing "Overall our business is good, but not nearly as strong as last year," says a district manufacturer. "We had real softening in the second quarter, but sales picked up significantly in the last five weeks," states another. These statements suggest Ninth District manufacturing sales are generally good, but not growing at the pace they were a year ago. Earnings of firms producing industrial machinery and high-tech products, like biomedical devices, however, have been very strong, while they have been weak for some consumer goods manufacturers. Consumer spending "Our sales reflect continued solid performance. but with higher than expected promotional markdowns. They also reflect a general softness in the retail market," says a major district retailer. A mall manager agrees: "Traffic at the mall is OK, but probably not up to last year." A manager with a regional department store chain reports slow sales of appliances, which is echoed by other sources who also note that apparel sales are lower than projected. Automobile dealers report a roller coaster year with sales very slow in the spring, some strengthening in June and July, but apparent weakening again in August. "People are just being very conservative" says one Montana dealer. Tourism "I've never seen so many people; this has to be the best season ever," comments one northeastern Minnesota business owner as people have flocked north to escape this summer's unseasonably warm weather. Tourist operators and association officials across northern Minnesota, northwestern Wisconsin and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan confirm this report. But their counterparts on the plains are less expansive. Montana officials report tourist activity somewhat below 1994 levels. And in South Dakota visits to major attractions such as Mount Rushmore and the Badlands are a few percentage points below 1994 levels, although visits to state parks are up. Some observers in these areas noted strengthening in late July and in August, but they think that the, season as a whole will not catch up to last year's levels. Employment, wages and prices "Firms look high, low for skilled workers" was a recent headline in one western Wisconsin newspaper that typified the situation faced by many district employers. With unemployment rates in western Wisconsin falling below 4 percent for the first time since 1988, that state's labor agency is conducting workshops for employers entitled "Solutions for a Tight Labor Market." Employment is up modestly in most areas of the district and in most job categories compared to a year ago. Unemployment rates remain below year-ago levels in many areas of the district and well below national levels in all areas except Michigan's Upper Peninsula. "We never used to see "help wanted" signs in Missoula, but we do now," says one Montana small business owner, who reports having to give modest raises to entry-level workers to avoid losing them. Another small business owner in North Dakota lists machinists, welders and CAD/CAM technicians as being particularly hard to hire. But most employers insist that overall wage increases are low. "We aren't getting any price increases on the material we buy," says one North Dakota manufacturer, "and lead times from order to delivery are back to normal." That seems to be the case for raw materials and intermediate goods in most sectors, with the continued exception of paper and packaging materials. Petroleum product prices have declined 3 cents to 4 cents a gallon from increases posted in late spring and are close to year-earlier levels.