Summary The economy in the Twelfth District expanded moderately in recent months. Retail sales reportedly improved after earlier weakening, and manufacturing activity strengthened in some areas. Although residential real estate and construction activity continued to be mixed, non-residential construction increased in many states. Consumer and construction loan volumes picked up at some District banks. Agricultural production was held down by weak yields for some crops. Business Sentiment Twelfth District business leaders' expectations for national economic growth improved recently, after deteriorating in early summer. The fraction of respondents expecting national growth to be weaker than the long-run average dropped in recent months, from about 35 percent in June to about 20 percent currently. Also, only about one-third of respondents expect the national unemployment rate to increase over the next year, down from the two-thirds who made a pessimistic assessment in June. Expectations for regional economic growth have been revised up slightly on the basis of an improved outlook for residential construction and consumer spending. Retail Trade and Services Retail sales reportedly improved in mid-summer at some types of stores. District retailers indicated that sales at food stores and auto dealers rebounded in July and early August from the weak June levels. However, apparel sales continued to be soft, which prevented retailers from adding larger markups to clothing prices. Among the states in the District, sales in California remained at much higher levels than a year earlier, and sales in Washington state increased moderately. Retail sales in Utah reportedly slowed. District service-producing industries generally noted continued strong demand, with the exception of some providers of transportation services to business. Truck and rail cargo volumes in the District reportedly have been weak so far this year, given the earlier dropback in some types of manufacturing activity. In Utah, tourism traffic remained at elevated levels, keeping hotels relatively full and fostering room rate increases at a 9 percent annual pace. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity reportedly is strengthening in some areas. In Utah, a manufacturer indicated increasing demand for construction and mining equipment. A California metal fabricator mentioned that aluminum suppliers are reversing earlier price cuts, owing to increased demand for ingot. The electronics manufacturing industry remained very strong in California. In the Pacific Northwest, producers reported that sales of pulp and paper remain firm, and wood product sales improved. A manufacturer of paints noted strong growth in offshore business, which led to some problems obtaining raw materials as well as to large increases in product prices. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Recent yields on several agricultural crops have been low, leading to price increases for some commodities. Cotton yields are down, and prices are expected to be higher this season. District cattle ranchers reported that weak harvests of corn and other feedgrains boosted feed costs, leading to a desire to liquidate much of the cattle inventory. However, export demand for beef and other agricultural commodities reportedly has been strong, providing some offset to the impetus to cut product prices. In contrast, there were high yields on table grapes at vineyards in California. Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate and construction activity has been mixed. In Oregon, residential activity reportedly remained strong in the western portion of the state, but pockets of excess inventory of homes for sale have arisen elsewhere in the state. Reports on residential construction activity in Utah varied by local area, with some respondents noting strong gains and others indicating that construction of new homes slowed significantly. In northern Nevada, home sales increased sharply. In the San Francisco Bay Area of California, residential markets reportedly improved slightly, with particular strength in the Silicon Valley. In Southern California, residential sales and prices had been falling sharply, but some respondents indicate that conditions stabilized recently. Non-residential construction increased in many areas, leading to some additional tightness in the market for construction labor. Major projects for hotels in Nevada and for manufacturing facilities in Oregon and Utah reportedly are creating higher demand for skilled construction workers, and respondents in such fast-growing areas reported difficulty in obtaining bids on small construction projects. Financial Institutions District banks generally noted favorable conditions. In California as a whole, loan demand appears to be picking up gradually, with renewed growth in consumer lending and in real estate refinancing. However, some banks in Southern California suggested that consumers appear to lack confidence and businesses still are reluctant to make capital expenditures.