On balance, reports on economic conditions in the Second District suggest that growth has slowed in recent weeks. Retail sales weakened considerably in August, with more than half the contacts reporting sales declines. Although the unemployment rate in New Jersey edged down slightly during August, New York State's unemployment rate jumped nearly a full percentage point. Finally, eighty percent of senior loan officers at small and midsized banks report steady or weaker aggregate loan demand over the past two months. Consumer Spending District retail sales weakened significantly in August. Year-over- year sales results ranged from losses of 2 percent to gains of nearly 5 percent, with more than half of the retail contacts reporting sales declines. Virtually all of the contacts report that August sales were below planned levels. In general, weaker-than- expected sales left inventories, particularly for apparel, above desired levels by month's end. Although disappointing back to school sales were the most common explanation for the weakness, few categories of goods sold well. One exception was software sales, which were spurred by the introduction of Windows 95. Construction and Real Estate The market for commercial real estate in Manhattan weakened in July but showed signs of strength in early August. The vacancy rate in midtown jumped 0.5 percentage points to 14.0 percent in July as leasing activity remained sluggish, while the downtown rate edged up to 24.7 percent despite an increase in leasing activity. Midtown showed evidence of a rebound in early August, however, including one very large transaction which removed the second biggest block of available space from the market. Residential construction across much of New York State and northern New Jersey remained slow during July and August. In New York, the market for new construction is weakest in the central part of the State, while activity in Buffalo and Rochester is sluggish but has generally remained at 1994 levels. One builder in northern New Jersey said housing construction during August was "as dry as the weather". In contrast, residential construction in New York's downstate area showed greater strength than elsewhere in the District, buoyed by subsidy programs for affordable housing as well as continued strength at the upper end of the market. Other Business Activity Based on the household survey, the unemployment rate in New York State jumped nearly a full percentage point to 7.1 percent in August, as the number of unemployed individuals rose sharply. In contrast, New Jersey's unemployment rate, which had increased steadily since March, edged down 0.2 percentage points to 6.6 percent. Looking ahead, the recently-announced merger of Chemical Bank and Chase Manhattan Bank is expected to cut approximately 4,000 jobs in New York City alone, particularly in retail banking operations, over the next three years. Purchasing managers in the Buffalo and New York metropolitan areas reported that manufacturing production contracted sharply in August. However, in the New York metropolitan area, strength in the region's larger non-manufacturing sector more than offset weakness in manufacturing. Although commodity price pressures moderated in Buffalo, they increased slightly downstate. Extremely dry weather has adversely affected field crops across much of the District. As a result, corn, hay, and soybean production is expected to decline from last year's levels. On a more positive note, tourism, particularly from abroad, has been unusually strong this year. Hotel occupancy in Manhattan for the January through July period was up over four percent from the same period in 1994, while such other tourism-related industries as restaurants, theaters, and museums report that traffic has been brisk. An influx of tourists is expected to visit New York's Finger Lakes region for this month's Ryder Cup golf tournament. Financial Developments Compared with two months ago, aggregate loan demand is steady at about fifty percent of the small and medium sized banks surveyed in the District and lower at thirty percent. Consumer lending softened considerably over the period and is now the weakest segment of the market; demand for consumer loans is lower at roughly forty percent of the banks and higher at only about ten percent. Similarly, demand for refinancings declined and many respondents noted that the level of refinancings was low. Over ninety percent of the loan officers surveyed report that demand for refinancings remained the same or decreased over the past two months. In contrast, demand for commercial and industrial loans firmed to become the strongest segment of the market. The share of banks reporting increases in demand for commercial and industrial loans is just equal to the share reporting decreases. Average loan rates are lower at half of the participating banks and are the same at the other half. The spread between average lending and deposit rates is steady at sixty-five percent of the banks and narrower at nearly thirty percent. Almost all of the respondents maintained their credit standards and all are just as willing or more willing to lend. For the most part, delinquency rates are stable or lower.