The First District economy is expanding at a moderate pace. Retail results in March and early April were mixed, ranging from double-digit sales gains to double-digit declines from a year earlier; some of the laggards saw a pick-up in recent weeks. Manufacturers are more upbeat, with most reporting solid first-quarter gains. Inventory levels are not out of line, according to both retail and manufacturing contacts. With few exceptions, selling prices and input prices are said to be stable. Commercial real estate markets in most of New England are improving slowly. Insurance sales are increasing. Retail First District retailers report extremely varied results in March and April. Chains selling upscale apparel or specialty non-apparel cite sales increases ranging from 4 to 13 percent over year-earlier levels, and one food chain notes unusual gains of 21/2 percent. Other contacts posted 0 to 10 percent losses in March and early April. A few of the latter, however, are encouraged by a very recent pickup in sales activity, attributed to the long-awaited arrival of spring. Retail respondents are moderately optimistic about the economy over the next six months and anticipate sales growth of 0 to 5 percent. They continue to express concern, however, about tough competition, particularly from national chains which are strengthening their position in the region. Vendor and retail prices remain stable. While gross margins are typically holding, profits vary greatly. Retailers are satisfied with current inventory levels; many contacts have updated their inventory systems in recent years. Less than one-third of respondents anticipate growth in capital spending and employment this year. Wage increases of 2 to 5 percent are expected. Manufacturing Almost all First District manufacturing contacts indicate that first quarter 1996 revenues increased from a year earlier, with close to half experiencing double-digit growth over this period. For most, recent sales trends are similar to those in the second half of 1995. Especially large gains relative to a year ago are reported for computer networking and miscellaneous microelectronics products, industrial machinery, and equipment used in residential and commercial construction. (Some contacts alluded to press reports of a slowdown in the semiconductor industry while indicating that their own related business is in good shape for the next 6 to 12 months.) Respondents report that sales of equipment to the pharmaceutical and health care industries are growing faster than in 1995, while sales to the automotive industry have slowed slightly. Demand for apparel textiles generally remains weak, although one contact cites positive trends for materials used in upscale clothing. Inventories generally are in line with plans. Many respondents indicate long-term efforts to reduce their inventory-to-sales ratio, however, and some firms in the textile and paper products industries report modest degrees of overstocking. One contact expects customers to stock packaging materials in anticipation of a price increase for polyethylene. Selling prices and materials costs are reported to be largely stable. Some respondents have raised prices to reflect higher-cost steel and other metals or to improve margins. Paper and wool prices reportedly have softened after rising considerably last year. About three-quarters of the respondents have increased employment during the past year, but future trends are expected to be more mixed. Some manufacturers report difficulties filling software and telecommunications positions, but none indicates generalized wage pressures. Investment plans vary widely; over one-third of those contacted mention efforts to rein in capital spending. Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate in New England has improved somewhat lately. Most markets are beginning to recover from the long winter. Contacts report gradual absorption of the existing stock, leading to slowly decreasing vacancy rates. No major new construction is reported. In addition, confidence is said to be low, preventing developers from making new investments and banks from lending them money. Rental rates have been going up slightly or have leveled off in most markets. However, contacts view these price movements as too small to make up for the large price decrease that took place over the last several years. While downtown Boston and the greater Boston area have been doing very well, Maine, Rhode Island, and Connecticut have seen only very minor increases in activity. In all the states, the retail market seems to be the slowest to recover, while the industrial sector and apartment building sales are stronger. Nonbank Financial Services Respondents at insurance companies reported an increase in sales in the first quarter of 1996 compared to the first quarter of 1995. Employment, however, continued its downward trend, mostly because of continuing consolidations and mergers in the region. The consolidation trend reflects the spread of managed care, as insurance companies providing fee-for-service health insurance merge with managed care providers.