Summary Economic activity in the Seventh District remained at relatively high levels in recent weeks, although a few pockets of slowing or declining activity existed. Retail sales growth increased slightly from earlier this year, but results varied by state. The District's housing activity picked up in March and April, with several contacts seeing buyers motivated by concern of possible further mortgage interest rate increases. With some exceptions, manufacturers were reporting increases in overall activity. Bank lending activity remained at high levels, and some banks even reported strong loan growth. Labor market shortages continued to be the main concern of businesses, despite softening demand for workers from the manufacturing sector. Grain prices increased sharply in recent weeks due to a combination of strong demand, both here and abroad, and weather-related problems which threaten to exacerbate already tight supplies. Retail sales Retail sales improved slightly in March, with further sales increases reported through much of April. Several retailers stated that Midwest sales were above year-ago levels and slightly ahead of gains in other regions. However, unseasonably cold weather may have hindered sales growth of spring merchandise, particularly in Michigan. Several retailers were concerned that sales lost to poor weather may not be made up in coming months, although one retailer reported a seasonal buildup of inventory in anticipation of increasing sales in May and June. While a survey of small independent Michigan retailers showed that sales continued to be slow in March, most respondents were optimistic that pent-up demand will boost second quarter sales, especially when warm weather settles in. Several auto dealerships reported that sales over the last several weeks were somewhat sluggish for this time of year, mostly due to a reduction in fleet sales. However, dealers are expecting marked improvement in the months ahead and dealer confidence remains high. One regional distributor of foreign cars reported that their new- and used-car sales were doing very well and dealers were "screaming" for more stock. Housing/Construction. Housing activity picked up more than seasonally in March and contacts reported that this pace continued through April. However, several sources surmised that the sharp increase in fixed-rate mortgage loan rates may have prompted indecisive buyers to take action. Existing home sales in the Midwest increased sharply in March to their highest level since April 1994. Contacts across the District reported that sales activity remained brisk in April, with one realtor adding that "if a home is sharp, it's gone in a day." New home sales in the Midwest posted modest gains in March and a national survey of builders suggested that the sales pace of new homes in April continued to exceed the nation's. Midwest builders were the most optimistic of any region in the country about prospective sales for the next six months. Commercial development remains slow, despite positive absorption rates and finning rents in both office and retail space. An industry analyst noted, however, that rental rates are not yet high enough to prompt much new commercial building activity in most downtown areas. Manufacturing Activity Manufacturing activity continued to expand at a moderate pace in March and early April, despite declines in some key industries. Recent purchasing managers' surveys from around the District were generally indicating flat-to-moderately increasing activity, including the survey from one major metropolitan area that had been signaling a contraction in overall activity in its two previous reports. Most durable-goods producers were upbeat, reporting recent orders or sales to be slightly stronger than they were expecting at the beginning of the year. Several pointed to exports as a key source of strength. A supplier of specialized equipment to the mining and paper industries reported strong demand for new equipment. machine tool producer reported a modest slowdown in demand for small- and medium-sized metal-cutting machines, but total demand was boosted by orders from the auto industry. A steel analyst stated that integrated mills supplying the auto and appliance industries had full order books through the second quarter and demand for structural steel continued to rise. Mills had been running behind on filling orders from the auto industry and were able to use the recent strike-related disruptions to catch up. Most producers reported that inventories were lean or, at worst, slightly above plan and would only increase, if necessary, to keep in line with any sales gains. However, some seasonal inventory building was taking place to prepare for summer plant closings. The pricing environment continues to be described as "tough." However, a March survey of businesses around the nation indicated that firms in the Midwest were more likely to be experiencing increases in prices paid and prices charged than in other regions. A few industries reported declining activity. A producer of heavy construction equipment experienced weaker-than-expected orders in recent months and reported that production had been cut to levels below the end of last year. An analyst for the heavy-duty truck industry reported rising dealer inventories and cuts in build plans, although the industry is postponing major adjustments until the summer shutdown period due to better-than-expected gross new orders. Auto assemblies in the District declined sharply in March due to a strike against a major automaker, but few businesses reported being impacted by the strike unless they were a direct supplier to the plants affected. Auto production bounced back in April as strike- related plants reopened and efforts were made to recapture some of the lost production. Banking Conditions Most bankers reported stronger-than-expected loan demand, with growth rates generally described as moderating from earlier months but still strong. Commercial and industrial lending was strongest among mid- and small-sized businesses, with one bank economist attributing some of the strength to recent merger and acquisition activity among local businesses. A large regional bank detected less pessimism among corporate borrowers than was prevalent at the beginning of the year, and one bank noted a decline in C&I loans for inventory financing. However, several banks noted some slowing in consumer lending. Every bank contacted reported that mortgage applications were down sharply in recent weeks, mostly for refinancing. Most banks viewed credit quality (excluding retailer loans) as remaining unchanged at very good levels, despite some increase in delinquency rates. Labor markets Labor markets remained much tighter in the District than in the nation as a whole; with unemployment rates well below the national average. Temporary help agencies reported that a shortage of qualified workers in the technology and information industries persists throughout the District and demand for skilled clerical workers is very strong. The employment component of purchasing managers surveys in March and April were mixed, supporting other reports of a stagnant employment situation in the manufacturing sectors. However, several sources reported that there are signs, including increases in average weekly hours, that manufacturers will again be increasing employment soon. Most sources also indicate that there is very little upward pressure on wages. Agriculture Grain prices have soared recently, setting new highs in both the cash and futures markets. The latest surge reflects strong domestic and foreign demand for corn, as well as a realization that the winter wheat crop suffered extensive damage from weather related problems during the fall and winter months. Higher grain prices are a major concern for livestock producers, although the District's pork producers have fared reasonably well so far. In addition, some observers question whether the depleted grain stocks might result in pipeline disruptions to feed supplies prior to the new harvest crop. An extended period of high grain prices may trigger cuts in livestock production which would, in time, tighten supplies of meat, milk, and eggs. However, the high prices will likely add to the large increase already expected in spring crop plantings now underway in the Midwest. Increased grain prices are, in part, responsible for rising farmland values. Our latest survey showed that District farmland values increased by over 4 percent in the first quarter and are now 10 percent higher than a year ago.