Overview Economic activity in the Fifth District grew moderately in late March and April. Retailers, manufacturers, port representatives, temporary employment agencies, and service producers reported that growth was higher in their sectors. Activity in the tourism and financial sectors was mixed, while the growth of state revenues varied across states. Residential real estate activity grew more slowly but commercial real estate activity strengthened. Conditions in agriculture were normal. Retail Trade Most indicators of retail activity suggested increased growth in April, according to preliminary results from a mail survey of District retailers. Sales revenue and shopper traffic growth increased. Employment growth increased slightly; wage growth changed little; and the growth of inventories and big-ticket sales slowed. Survey respondents indicated that their prices rose less in April than in March. Respondents' six-month outlook was for their prices to rise more slowly than was their forecast in March. Service Production The pace of expansion in the service-sector rose in April, according to preliminary results from a District mail survey. Revenue and employment growth was higher and wage growth changed little. Service producers reported that their prices rose at the same rate in April as in March. Respondents' six-month outlook was for their prices to rise more slowly than was their forecast in March. Manufacturing Most indicators of manufacturing activity growth increased in April, according to preliminary results from a monthly mail survey of District manufacturers. Except in Maryland, survey respondents reported a faster pace of expansion in shipments, new orders, and order backlogs. Maryland manufacturers reported that growth weakened, and one contact there attributed the weakness to defense cutbacks. Manufacturing employment and the workweek changed little and respondents continued to report a scarcity of skilled labor. Manufacturers indicated that finished goods prices increased slightly in April from the month before, but that raw materials prices declined. Respondents' six-month outlook was for their prices and the prices of raw materials to rise faster than was their forecast in March. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that April tourist activity was above March levels but below those of a year ago. Baltimore contacts reported that baseball boosted tourism above last year's strike- affected level. Compared to a year ago. District beach activity was hampered by an earlier Easter and colder-than-normal temperatures, but spring bookings were up. Contacts expected better-than-normal business and slight increases in prices during the next six months. Port Activitybr Representatives at District ports indicated that both export and import levels in March were higher than in February and a year ago. Contacts continued to expect exports and imports to increase during the next six months, with exports expected to rise faster than imports. Temporary Employment A telephone survey of District temporary employment agencies indicated that the demand for temporary workers was higher than in early March and a year ago. Wages paid to temporary workers increased faster than the general price level during the past year, but were unchanged during the last six weeks. Contacts indicated that companies were hiring more temporary workers into permanent positions than a year ago. Looking forward, contacts expected the demand for temporary workers to strengthen during the next six months. Finance Contacts at District financial institutions reported that lending activity was mixed during late March and April. Lenders indicated that the demand for commercial and consumer loans was unchanged from early March and that the demand for mortgage loan refinancings weakened. Compared to the previous six weeks, interest rates were unchanged on commercial and consumer loans but were higher on mortgage loans. Residential Real Estate According to a telephone survey of District real estate agents and homebuilders, residential real estate activity increased more slowly in late March and April. Housing starts, sales, and customer traffic grew at a somewhat slower pace. Homebuilders claimed that the recent increase in mortgage interest rates had negatively impacted their markets. Real estate agents said that the recent increase had forced some potential buyers out of the market but had led others to close more quickly on open transactions. Construction wages and building materials prices increased slightly. Commercial Real Estate District contacts reported that commercial real estate activity picked up in late March and April. Leasing activity increased, landlord concessions all but disappeared, and commercial rents continued to rise. Vacancy rates fell, except in West Virginia where they were unchanged. The availability of prime office space continued to tighten in most of the District and nearly half the respondents reported shortages; one Maryland contact characterized the shortage in his area as "desperate." Contacts continued to report new construction, especially in the Carolinas and the District of Columbia. State Revenues State tax collections were mixed in March compared to February. Real revenue growth was stronger in North Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia; flat in South Carolina; and somewhat slower in Maryland and the District of Columbia. Agriculture Activity in agriculture progressed at a normal pace according to district agricultural analysts. Warmer weather in late April allowed farmers to catch up on planting activity delayed by a colder-than-usual March. Winter's bite still affected crops; analysts reported that the condition of small grains and fruit trees were worse than normal.