Summary District economic activity has increased since the last report. Most contacts report stronger growth recently relative to the first two months of the year. Noticeable cost pressures are reported for several industries because of tight labor markets and substantial increases in fuel and feed grain prices. Residential and nonresidential construction have picked up after a slow January. Home sales have also improved in most parts of the District. Recent District loan growth is on par with that of last year, and many respondents report strong loan demand and aggressive competition for loans. A large percentage of the District's weather-damaged winter wheat crop will be plowed under and replanted with other crops. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Reports from District contacts are more upbeat than they have been in the past few months. Expansions and new plant openings are leading to increased employment, and, once again, reports of tight labor markets are prevalent. Some firms have cut back production, however, usually because of company consolidation or cost cutting. A snack food maker is expanding into northeast Arkansas where it will initially hire 200 to 400 workers by early next year. A large Missouri manufacturer of chemicals and related products reports a noticeable uptick in demand for materials used in the housing and auto sectors; an even larger increase is noted for agricultural- related products. A bank card processing center is expanding to southwest Missouri, bringing 750 jobs by year's end. A new Tunica County, Miss., casino has already hired 600 workers and is looking for 3,000 more. A concern, though, is that there are not enough workers in the area to satisfy this demand. Other contacts also report tight labor markets. Restaurant and other food service establishments are having a difficult time finding staff. One restaurant delayed its opening for two months because it could not find enough help, and a Tennessee hotel had to hire labor from overseas. The temporary employment industry is also encountering staffing problems. Production has slowed at some firms, though, usually because of company consolidation or cost cutting. A national railroad is shutting a diesel shop in Missouri to cut costs; most of the 240 workers will be offered transfers, however. A contact in the paper industry reports that production of coated paper has been halted because of excess inventory. Sales of bleached paper, used in milk and juice cartons, are strong, though. Wages and Prices Contacts continue to report increasing costs for raw materials and labor. In contrast to previous reports, however, some contacts have indicated that these higher costs are being successfully passed along to consumers. Most of the cost increases are between 2 and 3 percent. One contact notes that his firm is able to increase prices now because the government has restricted foreign competition and his firm's major domestic competitor has left the market. Substantial increases in wheat and feed grain prices have caused most large poultry producers in the District to curtail planned production by about 7 percent. Because stocks of poultry meat are already high, retail price increases are not expected in the near term. The recent uptick in oil prices has boosted fuel costs for the transportation industry and increased consumer gasoline prices. An industry analyst notes that, through negotiated contracts, some trucking firms have been able to pass along a portion of this additional cost. A large manufacturer of synthetic materials reports that there has been a modest rise in petrochemical prices over the last month or so; however, it has been unable to pass along this price increase. Real Estate and Construction After a slowdown in January because of bad weather, residential construction activity picked up in February and March. In some parts of western Kentucky, there is still a backlog of houses under construction, which is keeping contractors busy. Most contacts report that sales activity has also picked up; in some cases, existing homes are selling better than new homes. Mid-priced homes ($125,000 to $165,000) are the strongest sellers in most markets. Average sale prices in most District areas have remained stable, though. Contacts in most parts of the District continue to report strong nonresidential construction. Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at 11 large District banks increased 2 percent between mid-February and mid-April, just slightly less than the increase in the same period last year. Commercial and industrial loans declined 0.1 percent, and consumer loans declined 0.8 percent, while real estate loans rose 3.6 percent. District banking contacts still describe loan demand as moderately strong and competition as aggressive, with one noting that loan pricing is "predatory." Several contacts note a slight increase in nonperforming consumer loans, but indicate that current levels are not troublesome. Agriculture and Natural Resources Harsh winter weather conditions caused substantial damage to much of the District's winter wheat crop, with the crops in Illinois, Indiana and Missouri generally in poor to very poor condition. Reports from Illinois suggest that as much as half of the state's crop will be plowed under and planted with corn, soybeans or milo, while a quarter or more of the Missouri crop will be replanted. An early spring freeze in Arkansas caused an estimated 50 to 75 percent loss of the peach crop. Corn planting is generally proceeding ahead of schedule. Heavy rainfall across Missouri, southern Illinois and southern Indiana in late April caused isolated flooding in low-lying areas and along minor rivers and streams. As a result, some farmers may be forced to replant portions of their corn crops.