Summary Our contacts believe prospects are favorable for further moderate growth in the national economy in 1987, and continued price restraint. Activity in the District, overall, still trails the U.S. However, this year housing construction here has outpaced the nation. Cutbacks in employment continue to be announced by various major employers in the region, many in service sectors which had avoided large layoffs in the past. Contacts report continued vigor in consumer purchases, construction, and defense. Inventories are low at auto dealers, general merchandisers. and many manufacturers. Sales of paperboard, cement, gypsum board, and other building product are at or near record levels. Exports of linerboard are up sharply, helped by the lower dollar. Planned auto output is at high levels into next year, but fourth quarter production has been cut from earlier announced levels. Capital goods sales are slow. The protracted strike at USX has boosted prices and volumes for other steel producers. Crop losses due to heavy rains and flooding in September and early October were extensive in parts of the District. Overall corn and soybean losses, however, probably will be only modest. The drop in District farmland values apparently steepened in the third quarter. Steel The strike which has shut down USX since August 1 is helping other District producers. There are no shortages. Inventories built ahead of the strike by USX and its customers helped prevent supply problems initially. Other U.S. companies have been reactivating idle facilities. With longer leadtimes for sheet and other light products, and fewer order cancellations, steel makers have scheduled longer, more efficient production runs. Steel demand is described as good for autos, appliances, construction, and steel service centers. Weakness continues to be reported in steel for equipment, railroads, and shipbuilding. Orders for use in the oil and gas sector also remain very low but are up from near zero earlier this year. Motor Vehicles Auto output plans are at a high level into 1987. However, actual production has fallen persistently short of plans in recent months. Fourth quarter planned output has been reduced from earlier projections, despite sharply lower inventories. Analysts think record low financing rates and rebates pulled sales into model year 1986, and expect lower sales next year. Sales of light trucks, many for consumer use, have been setting records. Medium truck sales this year are expected by one of our contacts to equal last year's pace, and to maintain this rate in 1987. Heavies are projected to be down 7 percent this year, and to stay near the l86 pace in 1987. Realized prices on heavy trucks are down about 3 percent this year, and used truck prices have fallen substantially. Cutbacks in employment in the heavy truck industry arc continuing. Announced capacity reductions would raise utilization rates in this industry from 58 percent recently to 71 percent, at current production levels. A major domestic car and truck manufacturer has cut its use of imported engines substantially, and plans further reductions. Plant and Equipment Except for commercial aircraft production (centered outside this District) and the auto industry, capital spending is soft. No new heavy plants are underway-auto assembly plants announced or being built are not regarded as "heavy", but there are reports that some large new paper and chemical plants may be approved in the months ahead. Offers of free plant sites or other inducements by states, including Illinois and Indiana, continue to he reported for a planned new Fuji-Isuzu auto assembly plant. Sales of capital equipment generally remain slow. Steel castings demand is weak. A Chicago-area foundry which specialized in large steel castings, and which in the past employed tap to 2,800, is being shut down because of the low volume of business. A maker of heavy-duty transmissions, in cutting employment and reducing pay of those who remain, characterized its markets as soft, with no improvement expected next year. Farm machinery sales in Iowa this year have shown improvement over very low levels a year earlier. A Chicago-area overhead crane maker has been picked to supply the Chrysler-Mitsubishi auto assembly plant being built in Illinois. Construction Heavy rains in parts of the District temporarily delayed construction projects. Construction will continue at a high level into 1987. The strongest rise has been in residential building, though sales have eased somewhat since last spring. Permits for residential construction in the 5 states were 24 percent above last year for 8 months, versus a year to date gain of 4 percent in the rest of the nation. Mortgage rates have fallen back below 10 percent for 30-year fixed-rate loans at some area lenders, from more than 10.5 percent typically offered last summer. Residential building District-wide is still well short of levels reached in the 1970s, and particularly low in Iowa. In the Chicago area, contracts for commercial construction for 9 months (square feet, F.W. Dodge data) were 3 percent below last year's high level. Despite large discounts being offered in some cases on effective rents, new projects continue to be announced. Suppliers expect the vigorous pace of office and retail building to continue into 1987 in some centers including Chicago. Consumer Spending General merchandise sales slowed in September, after a good August. Slackening in September was attributed partly to weather and strong auto sales. Buying of appliances and household furnishings has been strong. "Back-to-school" sales were the best in 7-8 years, and Christmas sales are expected to be good. Inventories are low. Demand is described as strong for other consumer goods and services, including prepared foods, sort drinks, personal care products, medical and surgical supplies, and auto repair. Airline passenger miles have been up sharply, mainly due to widespread use of discount fares. Major carriers are raising fares. Agriculture Heavy rains and flooding in September and early October caused extensive crop losses in some areas and significantly delayed the fall harvest throughout most of the District. Hardest hit is Michigan, with estimated corn and soybean yield losses of 6 to 10 percent from earlier forecasts, and further downward revisions likely. Losses in other crops, navy beans, sugar beets, and potatoes, range up to 50 to 70 percent in a hard-hit area in Eastern Michigan. Elsewhere in the District, if recent improved weather holds, corn and soybean harvests probably can be completed with only modest reductions from earlier projected record yields. Following three quarters of a slowing rate of decline, the downturn in District farmland values apparently steepened again this summer. Preliminary results from our current survey of agricultural bankers shows that District farmland values declined 4 percent in the third quarter, and 13 percent in this year ending September 30. Sharp reductions in crop prices since spring, and concerns about farm program legislation that might reduce federal subsidies, doubtless contributed to the escalating downturn.