Summary District Reserve Banks report overall economic growth ranging from relatively stable to slightly improved, with conditions varying considerably by region and economic sector. Strength in consumer spending is somewhat less evident than in last month's reports. While residential construction activity remains relatively strong, reports of some weakening come from several regions. Manufacturing activity continues to be weak, with some specific exceptions. Prices, both at retail and for materials inputs, are generally reported to be steady. The serious slump in the energy industry continues, though some hints of modest improvement are reported. The depressed farm economy has been put under additional stress in some areas by drought and by heavy rains and floods. Loan activity at commercial banks is reported to be generally weak, with business lending relatively weak and real estate and consumer lending relatively strong. Consumer Spending The general strength in retail sales reported in the last Beige Book is less evident in this month's reports. Improved retail sales, with gains in some instances greater than expected, were reported in half of the districts. The remaining six districts reported some recent weakening in sales (Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago), continued slow sales (Dallas), or sales growth slower than expected (Philadelphia). Where specific goods lines were mentioned, hard goods (especially appliances and home furnishings) were generally selling better than soft goods, though apparel sales were strong in several districts. Retailers in the Boston, New York, Chicago, and Richmond districts are optimistic about sales through the rest of the year, including the Christmas season. Concern about Christmas season sales is expressed in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Dallas districts. Inventory levels are generally viewed as ranging from slightly low to satisfactory. Retail prices are described as steady to "remarkably stable." Domestic new car sales responded strongly in all districts to national incentives, and 1986 model inventories have been generally worked off. Concern is expressed in some districts about an expected sharp deluxe in auto sales and about the effect of large monthly car payments on discretionary income and other consumer purchases. Foreign and domestic tourists have bolstered consumer spending in the New York area. Tourism was up modestly in the Richmond district, but not as much as expected. In the Atlanta district, tourism remains strong but construction of many new lodging facilities has held down the benefits to individual hotels. Tourist traffic has been strong in the Pacific Northwest but disappointing in southern California. Construction and Real Estate Residential construction activity remains relatively strong, but reports of weakening come from several areas. The pace of homebuilding activity is reported to be vigorous by New York and Atlanta; New York reports no let-up in sight but Atlanta expects some slowing soon. Housing activity in the Boston district remains strong, but is moving back towards normal after the fast pace of recent years. Residential construction is likely to continue at a high level in Chicago into 1987. Minneapolis reports strength in housing in Upper Michigan and North Dakota as well as in Minnesota. Residential construction activity is reported to be generally good in the San Francisco district, except in Idaho and Alaska. Both Cleveland and Richmond see a slowdown in housing activity, while both Kansas City and Dallas report a recent slippage in residential construction. Nonresidential real estate activity is reported as mixed. Commercial vacancy rates are rising in New England's urban centers but suburban shopping mall space is still in demand. Contacts in New York report some pick-up in commercial and industrial leasing. Commercial construction is weaker in the Richmond district, and Atlanta reports sizable concessions on office leasing. The vigorous pace of office and retail building in Chicago is expected to continue into 1987. Moderate expansion in nonresidential construction activity in the St. Louis district has been spurred by vigorous growth in Arkansas, Kentucky, and Missouri. Manufacturing activity continues to be generally weak, but with some exceptions, such as defense-dependent businesses in New England, and aerospace and related electronics businesses in the San Francisco district. This generalization holds even though contacts report modest improvement in some areas and some industries, such as furniture and textiles and apparel in the Richmond and Atlanta districts. Capital spending continues to be weak, with productivity enhancement a much more important factor than expansion. Manufacturing employment continues to contract, and prices of materials inputs are generally reported to be steady. The USX strike benefited other steel producers in both the Cleveland and the Chicago districts. Steel demand is reported good for autos, appliances, and construction uses; weak for equipment, railroads and shipbuilding. Automobile output has been falling persistently short of plans in recent months, and fourth quarter output plans have been reduced from earlier projections. Although light truck sales are setting records, medium and heavy truck sales have been steady to down. Energy and Resources The serious slump in the energy industry continues despite somewhat firmer prices. Some slight stirrings are reported, however. While leading indicators of gas and oil drilling activity are still mixed, Atlanta, Dallas, and Kansas City report a very alight upturn in the drilling rig count. Chicago notes that while orders for steel for use in the oil and gas sector remain very low, they are up from zero earlier this year. Minneapolis reports a little activity in the oil and gas fields of North Dakota. Some improvement in the timber and forest products industry is reported by Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco. Agriculture The farm economy remains depressed, and additional stress has been put on parts of the industry by drought and by heavy rains and floods. Grain crops, hay, and tobacco suffered from drought in the southeastern states, reducing cash receipts. Heavy rains and flooding in parts of the Chicago, St. Louis, and Kansas City districts delayed fall crop harvests, reduced yields, and also delayed winter wheat planting. But overall reductions from projected record yields of corn and soybeans are believed to be only modest. Government payments are expected to be a substantial support to grain, cotton, and rice farmers. San Francisco notes increased cotton exports, along with good fruit, potato, and bean crops in the northern states of its district. Livestock producers generally face a positive income outlook, due to strong meat prices and low feed costs. Banking and Finance Total loan activity appears to be generally weak, with business lending typically reported as relatively weak and both real estate and consumer lending relatively strong. One exception is Philadelphia, which notes that demand for commercial and industrial loans remains strong. Philadelphia also says that banks are implementing more stringent credit qualifications for business borrowers. Atlanta notes a "more cautious lending atmosphere" for consumer loans, and St. Louis states that most district banks and thrift institutions have tightened lending policies for nonresidential real estate loans. Small and medium-sized banks in the New York district are coming under competitive pressure to lower lending rates. They are also lowering rates paid on variable rate accounts, and reluctantly beginning to look at "fixed rate" accounts. Some banks in the Richmond district have lowered passbook rates, but with a wary eye on the competition.