Overview Manufacturing and retail sales are stronger, and producers and retailers expect further improvement in the months ahead. Sales by service firms continue to grow. Residential and commercial construction are weaker, and lenders expect building activity to slow further. Loan demand is weak at depository institutions, but earnings are up. The drought-depressed agricultural harvest and low crop prices are putting additional stress on the region's farmers. Consumer Spending Forty-six percent of the retailers responding to our survey this month report increases in sales; last month, only 23 percent reported increases. On the other hand, 39 percent of this month's respondents report declines in sales, compared with 27 percent last month. Looking ahead six months, 69 percent of retailers expect increases in sales, and 10 percent expect declines. The corresponding percentages from last month's survey were 54 and 8. Summer tourism in the District was up about 5 percent this year aver last year. An even larger increase had been expected because of low gasoline prices and the decreased appeal of traveling abroad. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity is increasing, according to our survey of District firms. Fifty-seven percent of this month's respondents report increases in shipments, and 41 percent report increases in new orders. The corresponding percentages from the previous survey were 34 and 28. The survey results also indicate increases in manufacturing employment and the length of the workweek. Inventories of materials and finished goods declined slightly for the third consecutive month. Within manufacturing, increases in activity are most notable in nondurable goods industries, including textile and apparel firms. Durable goods industries such as furniture manufacturers, however, also report improved business conditions. In general, manufacturing firms expect activity to improve further in the months ahead. Services Service sector respondents report continued growth in activity. Forty-four percent report sales increases, while 20 percent report declines. The corresponding percentages from the previous survey were 41 and 24. Services respondents are less ebullient about the future than they were a few weeks ago; the percentage expecting sales increases over the next six months declined from 68 last month to 53 this month. Longshoremen have signed new contracts in North and South Carolina, and are working under contract extensions in Maryland and Virginia. Unions working without new contracts refused to accept the two-tier wage scale, which pays lower rates for certain kinds of cargo, that was agreed to by locals at other ports. Financial Bank and savings and loan executives report high earnings and plentiful supplies of loanable funds. Banks in some cities are competing aggressively for home equity lines of credit as well as new car loans now that most manufacturers' promotions are over. Loan demand for residential and office building construction and mortgage loan demand are weakening and are expected to decline further. Some depository institutions have lowered their passbook rates. Others would do so, they say, if it were not for their fear of losing deposits to competitors. Agriculture The District fall harvest is in full swing and the impact of the summer's prolonged drought is being felt. Yields of the field crops, corn, soybeans, and some small grains, have beer hurt the most, but hay and tobacco yields are also down significantly. Low yields and downward pressure on crop prices are expected to result in a 20 to 30 percent decrease in crop cash receipts compared with last year. Livestock producers may fare better this fall as strong meat prices will combine with lower feed costs to widen their margins and offset the heat- and drought-related losses of the summer. The availability of agricultural credit remains generally good throughout the District, but bankers believe that the financial position of farmers will deteriorate further this year. The extent to which federal loans will ease the shortfall in agricultural income is not yet known.