The District economy continues to grow very slowly, driven mainly by expansion in manufacturing. Construction activity is showing renewed signs of weakness. The rise in drilling has begun to abate. Retail sales continue to be sluggish while auto sales are particularly weak. The balance sheets of District financial institutions fail to show any marked improvement. District agricultural product prices are markedly above a year earlier. Manufacturing Most District manufacturers indicate that demand for their products has risen somewhat in recent months, but manufacturers tied to the construction industry report slight declines in orders. Producers of oilfield equipment and other energy-related goods report gradual increases in output that are tied to increased drilling activity. These manufacturers expect additional expansions in sales next year as long as drilling activity does not fall below recent levels. Output remains high among defense contractors, but they express some concern about the negative effects deficit reduction might have on future defense spending. Chemical manufacturers and refiners continue to report strong demand. Orders to electrical and electronic equipment producers are stable and above year-earlier levels while orders to steel producers also remain strong. Most apparel producers cite increases in output over last year. Manufacturers of construction-related goods report that sales have weakened further on a seasonally-adjusted basis, but they say that the trough of the regional construction cycle is near. Drilling The District drilling rig count declined slightly in October after rising the previous three months. Many analysts believe that the adjustment to $19-20 per barrel oil is nearly complete and, if the oil price remains in this range, that the rig count will soon reach a plateau. The recent performance of the well permit and seismic crew count data support the claim that the rig count will not change much in coming months. District construction appears to have resumed a protracted downturn that had abated during the second quarter of 1987. In the third quarter, the value of construction contracts in District states fell below that of the previous quarter and below that of the third quarter of 1986. Both residential and nonresidential construction contracts slipped. Nonbuilding construction activity, which showed strength in the first half of this year, has also begun to fall. Single and multifamily residential building permits are declining, as well. Construction employment, which responds with a lag to fluctuations in building contract values, has stabilized in recent months. Retail Sales by District retailers remain weak. Some respondents say their sales are down by as much as seven percent below a year earlier in nominal terms. Although merchants did not report any major employment changes, some said that slow sales may reduce the need for hiring during the upcoming holiday season. Auto Sales District auto dealers say their sales are declining because manufacturers have ceased to offer promotional incentives and because of sluggishness in the District economy. Most dealers do not attribute much of their sales weakness to the decline in stock prices, although they say that it is hard to point to specific factors. Some respondents report that their inventories are above desired levels. Prices of imports continue to rise rather gradually. Financial Institutions Despite slight month-over-month increases in September and October, deposits at the District's financial institutions are unchanged from a year earlier. Total deposits at large District banks continue to decline and, in October, were 13.3 percent below a year earlier. Although the financial crisis at District thrifts shows little evidence of abatement, there has been some continued slow growth in deposits at these institutions due to gains in small time deposits offsetting declines in large time deposits. It has been argued, however, that such increases as have occurred in small time deposits are largely the result of interest being credited to existing accounts. Agriculture Livestock and cotton continue to be the bright spots for District agriculture in 1987. The stock market crash is said to have contributed to the uncertainty that generated recent wide fluctuations in futures market prices for livestock. Nevertheless, cash prices for livestock have lately remained relatively stable. In the near future, the effect of diminishing supplies of cattle is expected to be offset by increasing supplies of chicken and pork, so that upward beef price movements will be limited. Livestock profit margins, although narrowing, are still high. Generally favorable weather in the second half of the growing season and relatively high prices have aided District cotton farmers. District cotton yields are up 15 percent over last year. Average agricultural land values are still failing but in some cotton growing regions in West Texas, land values are rising for the second consecutive quarter.