Black Monday appears to have had minimal effect on the Upper Midwest economy, at least according to the information received so far. There have been a few reports of order cancellations for commercial and industrial equipment. And automobile and retail sales have both been flat in November. However, our sources attribute that weakness to causes other than the stock market. The mining sector remains quite strong, and virtually all reports from the agricultural sector are rosy. Labor markets remain quite tight in almost all parts of the Ninth District. Labor Markets Labor markets districtwide are generally tight, as they have been for the last several reports. In North Dakota, the rate of unemployment in September was 3.4 percent, down from 3.8 percent in August and from 4.8 percent a year ago. In South Dakota, September unemployment was 3.9 percent, up slightly from August and up from 3.3 percent last year. In Minnesota, unemployment was 4.6 percent in September, the same as in August, but up from 4 percent in 1986. The rise in the rate of unemployment in Minneapolis/St. Paul, noted in our last report, continued. There, unemployment rose from 4 percent in August to 4.2 percent in September. Of course, these are still very low levels. In the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, the labor market continued its noteworthy performance of recent months. There, although the labor force declined slightly, the unemployment rate fell from 8.3 percent in August to 7.3 percent in September. Unemployment in Montana also declined, to 5.5 percent in September, from 5.8 percent a month ago and 6.6 percent a year ago. Consumer Spending New car sales have been weak in November in many parts of the district. One large automobile manufacturer reports November sales to be down about 8 percent from year-ago levels. Some slackening of sales had been expected anyway, however, and it appears that consumers may be waiting for another incentive program. Truck sales have been quite strong, and inventories are a bit on the low side. Some reports say early holiday shopping has been weak, and these sources believe the stock market crash is at least partly to blame. However, one large retail reports that October sales were the best since February. Its sales showed only a slight decline after the stock market crash and then remained a bit soft in early November. The retailer does not attribute this recent weakness to stock market action and is confident of brisk holiday sales. All our contacts expect a highly promotional holiday season, with many good bargains for consumers. Wholesale food prices are down and should quickly translate into some reduction in retail prices. Resource-Related Industries Little has changed in the mining sector since our last report. The boom in gold mining continues, and copper production is up. In South Dakota, a heavily debated moratorium on surface mining was recently defeated. Oil and gas drilling is up from its lows, although recent weakness in petroleum prices may constrain that activity over the coming months. In the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, taconite production is up, as is paper production. Spot paper shortages are being reported. Agriculture News from the farm sector remains quite rosy, and farm income is up throughout the district. Of bankers responding to our latest survey of agriculture credit conditions, 54 percent said third-quarter farm income was higher than a year ago, and only 11 percent said it was lower. Farmland prices appear to have bottomed out and, according to Bank directors, may even be rising a bit in some areas. According to some sources, the Conservation Reserve Program (a federal program for taking land out of production) has helped by placing a floor on ag land prices. Although volatile recently, livestock prices have remained at generally profitable levels. And grain producers have benefited from bumper crops, good harvest conditions, reasonable prices, and federal deficiency payments. Farm spending has been increasing. Tractor sales are up sharply, and a North Dakota tractor manufacturer is producing at or near capacity. As reported last month, farmers are using improved cash flows to pay down their debts. One ag banker even reports that farmers complained of interest rates being too low, obviously reflecting their shift in position from net debtor to net creditor. In South Dakota, a new facility for a million laying hens is planned; its construction should begin in spring of 1988.