Summary Business activity continues to expand in the District with few signs of significant effects on aggregate activity from the stock market crash. Employment has been trending upward. Apart from autos, industrial activity generally is rising. Nonauto consumer spending appears to be holding up well, overall, though reports are mixed. Capital spending is expanding in a number of industries. Sales of basic industrial supplies have strengthened. Machine tool orders have picked up recently. Lead times have lengthened considerably, and prices of industrial materials and intermediate products continued to press upward after the stock market crash. Building contracts in District states have risen this year, in contrast with a decline in the nation. District farmland values rose for the third consecutive quarter in the July-September period. Effects of the Stock Price Drop Reports from District contacts indicate that effects of the stock price drop, so far, are limited. Some retailers saw a slowdown in sales beginning October 19, but only for a couple of days. A few real estate transactions were cancelled shortly after October 19, and inquiries about selling homes rose from some worried participants in Chicago's financial exchanges (though few appear to have listed their homes as a result). The possibility was noted by our sources that sizable cuts in consumer or capital spending could still take place, leading to inventory adjustments and a more general slowing of activity, but they see no evidence that this is occurring. A contact at a large retailer, who has seen no sustained adverse effects on the firm's sales, suggests that, contrary to the recent trend to lower forecasts, projections for activity should be raised in view of the fall in interest rates and the dollar since October 19, and ample liquidity. Purchasing Managers Chicago-area purchasing managers reported that orders, backlogs, and production continued strong in October. Vendor delivery times lengthened, and price increases were widespread. Milwaukee purchasing managers indicated that lead times have lengthened considerably, resulting in a slower rate of rise in production and drawdowns of inventories of some materials. Orders and backlogs continue to increase. The lower dollar has sharply boosted exports. Buyers are concerned about the threat of higher inflation at the finished goods level from continued increases in prices of basic industrial inputs "across the board." Firms are still cautious about capital spending commitments. Capital Spending One source describes metals producers as on a "capital spending spree" for process improvement. Their more efficient plants are operating at or near capacity. Glass and paper makers are also investing in new equipment, and some cement makers are building new plants. Japanese motor vehicle and parts manufacturers are investing in numerous plants in the U.S., and additional spending is thought likely due to the dollar's further fall over the past month. There are no signs that the fall in stock prices is leading to delays or cutbacks in capital spending projects already underway. Construction and Real Estate Residential real estate sales are slow, and few loan applications are "in the pipeline." Rates quoted in the Chicago area for 30-year fixed-rate home mortgage loans have fallen from around 12 percent a month ago to 10.5 percent, with a few lenders at 10.25 percent. Loan applications are typically low at this time of year, but may also be held down in part by hopes that rates will fall further or by households' responses to the drop in stock prices. In contrast, a commercial mortgage banker reports that applications increased following the recent drop in mortgage interest rates; lower rates are viewed as a window of opportunity for refinancings and new projects. Residential construction contracts (in square feet of floor space) in the first nine months of 1987 were up 8 percent from last year in District states, compared to down 8 percent in the nation. Year-to-date mobile home production in District states (mainly Indiana) was 2 percent above last year, in contrast with 5 percent lower for the U.S. Contracts for nonresidential buildings were 14 percent higher in the District and flat in the U.S. A large Chicago-area supplier of ready-mix concrete expects shipments in 1988 to be at a good level but less than this year, mainly reflecting cuts in office buildings and other commercial structures. Numerous projects are in the planning stage. Public works and highway construction will be strong in 1988. Motor Vehicles Slow car sales are leading to further production cuts. Three Michigan assembly plants will be shutdown for 1-3 weeks in January with two of these plants then reopening at reduced line speeds. In part, the auto production cuts reflect the shift in consumer preferences toward small trucks, including vans, and the continued strength of imported cars, both truck and imported car sales in October were highest ever for the month. Sources in Michigan remain concerned that announced auto production plans are too optimistic and that further cuts will be needed, adversely affecting suppliers and communities in that area. Other Manufacturing A diversified maker of consumer and industrial products reported that sales remained strong in October, with no weakening in any of its lines. Steel production at Chicago and Detroit area mills has continued to rise in recent weeks. Demand is relatively strong for gypsum board and cement in District states. Gypsum board pricing may have stabilized after a drop earlier this year. Consumer Spending Recent cool weather has boosted sales of apparel. In the view of one retailer, the outlook is favorable for Christmas. Inventories of nonauto consumer durables and many non-durables are low and unlikely to pose problems for merchants. However, sharp increases in prices on imported women's apparel have led to cuts in consumer spending and extra promotional efforts by retailers to sell excess inventories. Agriculture Our latest survey of agricultural banks indicated that District farmland values, on average, rose more than 3 percent in the third quarter, the third consecutive quarterly rise since the downtrend ended in late 1986. Among District states, the third quarter trend in farmland values ranged from no change in Michigan to a rise of nearly 5.5 percent in Iowa. A large proportion of the surveyed bankers noted that demand to acquire farmland is up from a year ago, both among farmers and nonfarmer investors. However, there has been no apparent pickup in foreign investor interest in U.S. farmland.