Most Districts report overall economic expansion with particular strength noted in Boston, Chicago, Minneapolis, and San Francisco. Despite general optimism among surveyed firms, there was also widespread evidence of increased uncertainty about future growth in demand. Furthermore, while the majority of survey respondents said that the stock market crash had not materially altered their capital spending plans, reports of at least some deferrals of plans appeared in a number of District discussions. The manufacturing sector has been a prime source of recent expansion in most Districts. Retail sales are either flat or only slowly growing in most Districts and auto sales are generally sluggish. Construction activity is mixed. Mining is strong across a broad spectrum of extractive industries, but reports of the possibility of future softening in oil and gas drilling expansion were common. The agriculture sector is in a generally favorable condition among the Districts. In the financial markets, some slowing in the growth of loan demand was often cited. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity continues to expand. No District reported that a majority of surveyed firms had revised capital spending plans as a result of the stock market crash. Survey respondents generally had positive expectations for the near future. There was clear evidence, however, that the stock market crash had led to increased uncertainty and to a declining degree of optimism about future demands for manufacturers' products. St. Louis, San Francisco, and Chicago all cited the declining value of the dollar as a significant factor in generating recent manufacturing growth. Cleveland and Dallas noted increased demands for steel and St. Louis and Dallas mentioned rising demands for electrical equipment and for apparel. Despite the generally positive reports for manufacturing, the Chicago and St. Louis banks both referred to layoffs at auto assembly plants in their Districts and Atlanta reported that appliance and furniture producers are concerned that the stock market plunge may lead to reduced sales. Consumer Spending Retail respondents in most Districts report flat or at best slowly growing retail sales. The stock market decline appears to have had little effect, even in areas where the drop was cited as a reason for slower sales growth. The major effect seems to have been on big- ticket items. New York, Cleveland, Richmond and San Francisco each reported weakness in such items, while Kansas City noted markedly lower sales among stores targeting upper income groups. Those Districts reporting on them cited reduced auto sales in October and November, although Philadelphia respondents said sales were above a year earlier. The withdrawal of manufacturers sales incentives was cited as the reason for auto sales declines more often than the stock market drop. Construction Construction activity varies considerably among Districts. Chicago reported overall growth, while weakening was noted in the Dallas, Atlanta, and St. Louis Districts and was expected in the Boston District. The drop in the stock market appears to have had a depressing effect on New York, Richmond, and Chicago home-buying. New York District office space demands remain high despite softening in the downtown Manhattan market, while high vacancy rates linked to past overbuilding have induced Atlanta District office and industrial developers to put projects on hold. Mining The strength in the mining sector continues across a broad spectrum of minerals, but several Districts report recent small declines in oil and gas drilling and the possibility of future sluggishness in energy extraction. Atlanta cites recovery in the coal industry. Minneapolis notes that the boom in gold mining continues and copper production is expanding. Dallas, Kansas City and Minneapolis all note that the recovery in drilling is slowing and report concerns that future expansion in drilling may cease. Agriculture and Forestry Most reporting Districts note improved prospects for their farm sectors, but several noted that recent dry weather has caused problems. Richmond, St. Louis, Minneapolis and Dallas all report an improved farm income outlook. Richmond and Chicago cite widespread increases in farmland prices, while farmland prices have bottomed out in the Minneapolis District and price movements are mixed in the St. Louis District. Agricultural credit conditions are improved in most reporting Districts. Some Districts cited problems with soybean yields, in part, because of dry weather conditions. Cotton production and livestock prices are generally cited as favorable in Districts that discussed them. In forestry, demand for wood used in paper and pulp is generally up. Lumber demand and prices are down, in part, because of seasonal factors. Financial Services Growth in overall loan demand appears to have slowed in a number of Districts. Consumer loans are either growing more slowly or have been unchanged at most reporting District banks, although New York cited strong demand since the stock market crash. Real estate loan expansion was fairly widely noted. Philadelphia and Kansas City reported essentially flat business loan activity, while Atlanta cited stable to increased loan demand and Cleveland noted recent expansions.