Summary The Twelfth District economy continues to exhibit steady growth, with little apparent impact from the stock market decline of mid-October. Declines in the foreign exchange value of the dollar and in interest rates during the past month appear to be more important economic developments for many western businesses. Consumer spending continues at about its previous pace, with the weakness in car sales noted early in October carrying through to recent weeks. Manufacturers, farmers, and forest products companies continue to enjoy improved sales and exports, with changes in capital spending plans among these firms extremely rare. Activity in construction and real estate also seems to be holding up well, despite isolated project postponements in the wake of the stock market decline. Some financial institutions have seen increases in deposits since October 19, but few report changes in loan demand or significant problems with equity-secured loans. Consumer Spending Consumer spending appears to be holding up well in the wake of the stock market decline. Although several respondents noted an increase in consumers' cautiousness, few cited specific examples of changes that could be attributed to market events. Car sales are sluggish, but they were slow in early October as well, and most observers attribute the current pace of activity to the lifting of incentive programs. Some deals fell through during the week of October 19, but the impact appears to have dissipated. Sales of luxury cars, however, reportedly remain sluggish. There are reports of sales declines for some high-end apparel stores in Oregon and southern California, but other high-end retailers report sales increases. Manufacturing Manufacturers in the Twelfth District continue to report improvements in sales, many of which they attribute to the reduced foreign exchange value of the dollar. No respondents reported any changes in manufacturers' capital spending plans as a result of the stock market decline. Many pointed out that their expansion plans already were conservative, calling for only the most necessary projects. This stability is reflected in borrowing activity; for example, one large Washington bank reported that no business loan requests have been withdrawn since the plunge. A California state office that provides assistance to expanding and relocating firms likewise has seen no changes in expansion plans. Several respondents did note, however, that businesses are taking a "wait and see" attitude regarding future commitments. Agriculture and Resource Related Industries For the most part, changes in interest rates and the value of the dollar are affecting resource industries more than the stock market decline is. Scarce rainfall has affected some farmers in the West, and northwestern forests were closed to logging for a brief period due to fire danger. Early fall rains alleviated much of the immediate concern, but it will take average rainfall throughout the winter season to assure normal water supplies for next summer. Exports of agricultural and forest products continue to run at levels well above those of a year ago, and only one firm in either industry reported changing its capital spending plans since the stock market decline. Construction and Real Estate The week of the stock market decline, some realtors reported that a few deals fell through, primarily because buyers had invested their down payment money in the stock market. Since then, however, home sales activity has been comparable to that earlier in the year. Construction activity also is holding up for the most part, although one southern California developer postponed a residential real estate development because of concerns about housing demand eighteen months from now. The decline in interest rates is offsetting much of the concern regarding the impact of the stock market decline on home buying activity. Financial Sector Although a few financial institutions have noted large deposit inflows during the past month, many others have seen little or no change. Several institutions reported that they recently have become more aggressive in attracting deposits, by offering more competitive interest rates. Most bankers report that they have seen no significant changes in loan demand since mid-October. One financial institution, with offices throughout the West, noted a decline in mortgage applications the week of October 19, but since then activity has been at levels comparable to those seen throughout 1987. However, a southern California institution reports that demand for residential real estate loans has dropped by about 10 percent in recent weeks. There was some initial concern about asset quality of stock-secured loan portfolios, but closer examination has revealed few significant problems.