Summary Respondents in the Fourth District have generally lowered their forecasts of real GNP to show deeper declines this quarter and next, especially because of inventory correction. Capital goods orders are deteriorating, except in limited cases such as energy and aerospace. Steel production continues to decline, as inventory liquidation weakens orders. Post-Thanksgiving Day retail sales rose less than anticipated, and several retailers are pessimistic about the remainder of the shopping season. District unemployment is expected to rise further in December, because manufacturing industries are experiencing shutdowns and seasonal hiring in nonmanufacturing is relatively light. Housing may be bottoming out, but several S&Ls expect a very sluggish recovery. Outlook Several economists, who expected a decline in real GNP between 3 percent and 5 percent in late October, now have lowered their fourth quarter forecasts to show a decline between 5 percent and 7 percent (annual rates). Effects of high interest rates and a sizable inventory accumulations are primary reasons given for the larger than expected weakness in economic activity. The peak-to-trough decline in real GNP is expected to be milder than the 1980 recession. Although most respondents expect the recession to trough in the first quarter of 1982, a bank economist expects a turnaround no sooner than mid-1982, when consumer tax cuts and capital spending provide stimuli. Since sharp recoveries often follow an inventory adjustment, an initial surge in economic activity is likely, followed by a sluggish advance until capital-goods spending accelerates in the second half of 1982, according to a capital-goods economist. Capital Goods Capital-goods spending is still basically flat, according to several respondents, but a few producer-goods manufacturers report that orders have been deteriorating a little more rapidly recently. Generally, weakness in capital spending for trucks, industrial machinery, and farm machinery has been offset by continued strength in computer equipment, energy, and electronics. Within electronics, an economist for a capital-goods producer notes a slowdown in orders for production-related equipment, even though order books for advanced technology equipment are full into 1984. Recent weakness in construction of office buildings has resulted in some decline in commercial air conditioning parts, according to one producer. Weakness has also occurred in utilities and their construction-related activities, according to a capital goods supplier, because of declining power consumption. Several respondents expect capital spending to decline in the first half of 1982 because of concern that interest rate will remain high, as well as because of declining operating rates and a lagged effect of weak profits during the second half of 1981. Steel The pace of decline in steel orders is slowing, but steel production still exceeds demand. Current operating rates, according to a steel economist, are at about 60 percent of capacity, while order rates are equivalent to only about 50 percent. Inventories are accumulating at the mill and among customers, although a steel distributor reports some customers are requesting immediate delivery to maintain production. Operating rates could fall below 50 percent in the weeks ahead in an effort to control steel inventories. However, an industry economist states that inventory liquidations underway may cause shortages and could result in a recovery in steel orders by next March. A steel fabricator reports business activity has slowed substantially since mid-August, with even some softness emerging among oil industry customers where oil projects have been disrupted by bankruptcies. Consumer Spending Retail sales in the District have deteriorated more than nationally during November, in contrast to recent months. An economist for a major department store chain believes that some pickup in retail sales began in late-November, mostly in auto sales, but further gains in December are expected to be divided between auto sales and GAF. Several local retailers report post-Thanksgiving Day sales slightly below year-ago levels, but total sales through November were slightly above year-ago levels. Heavy promotions are expected through the remainder of the year. An economist for a major grocery-store chain reports a gradual slowdown in sales as customers experienced falling disposable income in recent months. Spreading unemployment has made consumers more cautious. A producer of home and personal care goods reports mild year-over-year gains in sales (about 2-3 percent), but these gains are considered to be below expected normal increases (about 4-5 percent) under present economic conditions. Auto sales were very weak in November, according to several local auto dealers, and December could be among the worst sales months ever. No sales promotion are being offered in December, although new promotions may begin in January. An area dealer has cut orders from producers by 75 percent, while retaining a 90 day stock. Several import dealers also report weak sales, although less severe than domestic dealers. A turnaround is not expected until next spring, and possibly not before the next round of consumer tax cuts. Employment Plant shutdowns for inventory control are expected to produce a substantial further increase in District unemployment in December. Declines in manufacturing employment have already exceeded nationwide declines since the mid-1981 high. The sharpest decline in the District, in absolute and relative terms, occurred in auto and auto-related industries. Only in primary metals has the decline in the District been less than nationwide. Most respondents to the latest Fourth District Manufacturing Survey report tightening control on labor costs and overtime, but virtually all of the recently announced lay-offs are occurring among durable-goods producers. Housing Some housing officials believe a trough in housing could be in the fourth quarter, if easing mortgage rates, which have declined to about 17 percent, continue to ease and if an economic recovery occurs early next year. Housing orders, according to a major builder, are below year-ago levels, although recent year-over-year percentage declines have narrowed since summer of 1981. A local builder is skeptical that falling mortgage rates will contribute much to increasing the number of qualifying loan applicants. Also, mortgage lending may be slow to pick up, according to several S&L officials, because increased savings flow will be absorbed by repaying FHLB advances. Savings flows thus far continue to be weak but positive. S&Ls have been more aggressive than banks. in promoting IRA accounts. Some S&L officials note that All-Savers certificates have shown only marginal increase in November, with most the funds coming from existing accounts.