Overview Although there is now evidence that earlier reports may have understated the strength of the Fifth District economy, most current information suggests a marked deterioration of business activity in the past month. Manufacturers surveyed report a broad decline in shipments, new orders, and order backlogs over the past month. Retail sales activity also softened with most respondents in this sector also reporting month to month declines in activity. Residential construction and sales, auto sales, and several industries dependent on those are showing pervasive, weakness which has led to layoffs and reduced workweeks. As a result, unemployment has risen significantly in some, though not all, areas of the District. Several of our Directors find the confluence of cyclical and structural (tax changes, IRAs, etc.) factors promoting personal savings at the further expense of retail sales, particularly of durable goods. Manufacturing Somewhat more than two-thirds of the manufacturers surveyed experienced declines in shipment, new orders, and order backlogs over the past month. Increases in any of these measures of activity were rare. Stocks of finished goods continued to rise and remain somewhat worrisome. As noted, employment and the length of the average workweek have declined among District manufacturers. The textile industry seems to have been particularly hard hit as demand for housing and auto related products continues extremely weak. Such industries as furniture, primary metals, and building materials appear little better off, however. A notable change from recent periods is the virtual lack of strength in any significant District industries. Prices were essentially stable over the past month, with indications that prices received by District manufacturers may actually have declined slightly. Generally, plant and equipment capacity is in excess of present needs, but current expansion plans are considered appropriate. Consumer Spending Consumer spending seems to have weakened further in recent weeks. Retailers surveyed report declines in total sales and relative sales of big ticket items. Our impression is that this weakness has become generalized. Sales and discounts, unusual for this time of year, are widespread. Although our survey results suggest further inventory reductions have occurred at the retail level there remains some concern about current stocks. Several of our Directors attribute the consumers' reluctance to buy to doubts about the course of the economy, the interest rates available on savings, and the recent and prospective changes in the tax treatment of savings (all-savers, IRAs). Some of them perceive in this a lasting change in the attitudes concerning consumption and savings which they find encouraging for the longer term. Its immediate effect on economic activity, however, is apparent and not at all encouraging. Housing and Construction There has been no discernible change in the construction sector in the past month. Housing construction remains spotty, but generally depressed. Non-residential construction continues to provide some support, although, this too, is becoming somewhat more localized. The Financial Sector The shift toward savings, whether it is transitory or permanent, is being felt by financial institutions. Bankers we have contacted have experienced positive responses to market interest rate instruments and expect a pickup in activity after the first of the year with the expanded eligibility for IRAs. There is some disagreement as to the aggregate effects of the IRA, but general agreement that it will be a significant source of long term funds to the financial sector. It is probably fair to say that a majority of our respondents do expect IRAs to generate a large amount of new money for financial institutions in the District. The Outlook The outlook continued to deteriorate over the month judging from our survey responses. About half of all respondents expect the level of business activity nationally and in their respective market areas to decline over the next six months, while almost as many expect further declines in business at their own firms or establishments.