Overview Economic conditions deteriorated further during November, according to the District reports. Growth in consumer spending slowed or tell in many regions. The slump in manufacturing worsened, and layoffs, production cuts, and plant shutdowns appeared to be spreading. Residential construction failed to revive despite a decline in interest rates. Nonresidential construction activity continued strong in some Districts. While consumer lending remained soft, business borrowing strengthened in a few Districts. Low prices depressed agricultural incomes and created anxiety about farmers' abilities to meet loan obligations. Economists have revised their forecasts of near-term economic growth sharply downward. Many believe the downturn will reach the trough by the first or second quarter of 1981 and that the economy will then rally over the second half of the year. Consumer Spending The retail sector was soft throughout the country during November. Many areas experienced reduced sales growth or actual declines, although the pace improved after Thanksgiving in the Northeast. Real sales, however, were lower in Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and Minneapolis. After falling in October, nominal retail spending in San Francisco recouped the loss in November, but in real terms holiday expenditures are not expected to reach last year's mark. Although high quality products were selling better than low- cost goods in Boston, durables and other big-ticket items were moving especially slowly in many other locations. Merchants in numerous Districts were counting on a late surge to produce an acceptable holiday season, with some stores relying on heavy promotions and price markdowns to increase activity. Despite the overall sluggishness in retail sales, inventories were mentioned as a problem in only five Districts. No improvement in automobile sales was evident, and dealers in Cleveland were prepared for one of the worst months ever. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity nationwide appeared to be worsening from last month's depressed levels. All Districts reported drops in new orders or shipments for at least some industries. Hard hit by the downturn were producers of capital goods, building materials, textiles, paper, steel, and consumer durables. Even demand for high technology products has slipped. Difficult conditions persisted in mining in Minneapolis and San Francisco. Strong spots were noted in defense industries in Boston and New York and energy-related industries in St. Louis and Cleveland. Layoffs rose in all Districts but Dallas. Manufacturers in Philadelphia and Chicago indicated an easing of price pressures. Construction Residential construction and home sales remained virtually at a standstill, as little additional activity resulted from recent declines in interest rates. Housing prices have begun to fall in Atlanta and Chicago, but Dallas reported that further interest rate reductions were likely to cause prices to jump sharply. Nonresidential construction continued to be strong in New York, St. Louis, and Dallas. Office construction in Chicago received a boost when financing problems were resolved for some large projects. Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco had moderate activity in the nonresidential sector. Financial Developments Consumer loans continued to languish, but increased demand for business loans was observed in some areas. In Philadelphia, consumer loans declined by as much as 20 percent. In contrast, business loans were rising in New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and Dallas. Inventory financing, mergers, cash shortages, energy development, and below-prime lending were cited as factors contributing to the upturn. Agriculture Although good-to-excellent crops were reported in several Districts, lower-than-expected prices were reducing net returns in agriculture. Consequently, the financial positions of farmers prompted growing concern. In Kansas City, the low prices prevented any improvement in customers' creditworthiness as interest rates fell. Agricultural loan delinquencies continued to climb in Atlanta, but lenders hoped foreclosures could be held to moderate levels. In Dallas, private lenders were carefully watching their agricultural loan portfolios, although few immediate problems were foreseen. The Outlook In the face of widespread sluggishness, economists lowered their forecasts of real GNP growth. Fourth quarter declines are projected to be as large as 7 percent, but the recession is generally expected to bottom out in the first or second quarter of 1982. Many observers anticipated a strong recovery by the second half of the year, although Chicago warned that any subsequent upturn expected next year; would leave that District far short of full prosperity. Manufacturers differed about when they thought that business would pick up. At the extremes, Philadelphia firms hoped for expanding orders between now and June, while many Richmond companies believed the slump will deepen over the same period. Fears that increased inflation will accompany the recovery were voiced.