Although sluggishness persists in the Ninth District, signs of improvement occurred in May and early June. The signs of improvement were many: Consumer spending, particularly for merchandise, continued the improvement it began in April. Industrial activity improved as suggested by an increase in manufacturing firms' new orders and by the settlement of construction strikes. Late spring rains have improved growing conditions, and crops are off to a good start. Despite these improvements, farm prices and auto sales in May and early June were disappointing after showing signs of improvement in April, and mining and lumbering remain weak. These weaknesses continue to be reflected in sluggish bank lending. Consumer Spending The district's consumers continue to be less hesitant to spend than they were in March. Our last report indicated that general merchandise sales increased somewhat more than seasonally in April, and this improvement has continued. Two major district retailers reported sales gains in May and early June and indicated that sales exceeded expectations. Directors from Minnesota and Montana also reported that general merchandise sales have continued to improve. Not only are consumers spending more in stores, but they are traveling more, for reports from Minnesota and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan indicate a more-than-seasonal pickup in tourist spending in May and early June. This pickup in spending, however, does not extend to autos and homes. A regional sales manager for a domestic automobile manufacturer indicated that in May and early June, car sales returned to their depressed pre-rebate levels after improving in April. Home sales did not drop, but did not improve; mortgage loan applications at Minneapolis-St. Paul S&Ls in May and early June were unchanged from April's depressed level. Industrial Activity and Inventories Like consumer spending, industrial activity showed signs of improving in May and early June. Manufacturing orders have increased. Our last report indicated that gains in some manufacturing firms' new orders were being offset by declines at other firms. But 46 percent of the respondents to a recent University of Minnesota survey of Minnesota manufacturers reported increases in new orders in May, 35 percent reported declines, and 19 percent reported no changes. Most of these firms also said that they had no buildup of unwanted inventory, and several reported that the prices they paid for inventories had either stopped rising or had declined. Construction activity has also picked up as the strikes, which had shut down many Minneapolis-St. Paul area construction projects since early May, were settled in mid-June. In contrast to the improvement in manufacturing and construction, mining and lumbering remain in the doldrums. A Montana director indicated that the forest products industry in western Montana continues to operate at 60 percent of capacity. Similarly, in northeastern Minnesota and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, some iron ore mines remain closed and others are operating only part of the time. Agricultural Conditions Improved growing conditions have coincided with the improvements elsewhere in the district, but farm prices remain a concern. At the time of our last report, substantial portions of the district were still experiencing drought. Rains came to most of these areas in late May and early June, and crops throughout the district now are off to a good start. Although crop prospects have improved, farm prices haven't. After increasing in April, cash grain and livestock prices in Minneapolis and South St. Paul, except for slaughter cattle and hogs, either remained the same or declined between April and May. All these prices remain well below the highs attained late last year. The continuing weakness in grain prices stems from export sales being low; for example, an economist for a major Upper Midwest railroad indicated that his firm's grain shipments to West Coast ports have been less than anticipated. Financial Developments Although there are signs that the district's business activity may see some improvement, it remains sluggish at the moment. Recent loan growth is consistent with this overall assessment. Loans at Minneapolis-St. Paul area banks in May and early June remained at April's lackluster level, and outside the Twin Cities, bank directors reported no pickup in bank lending.