The consensus in the Twelfth District is for a weakening in the economy. Most are forecasting a continued decline in consumer spending. Consumers are especially hesitant to buy large items. The unemployment and inflation picture in the region is following the national trend. Unemployment rates have edged upward, while the inflation rate has slowed. With housing, energy, and food prices leading the way, very optimistic short-run inflation expectations are being expressed. Little activity is occurring in the housing market. Mortgage rates are still high, up to 18 percent, and consumers are hesitant to obtain adjustable rate mortgages. Agriculture continues strong and many areas are reporting good harvests. Financial institutions are increasingly troubled by the outflow of deposits to money market funds. It is felt that the current regulations are inequitable and that the restrictions need to be immediately loosened so that banks and thrifts can better compete with other institutions offering financial services. Consumer Spending Indications were given to suggest a rather widespread and substantial weakening in consumer spending. Sales of durable goods, especially automobiles and appliances, are said to be extremely sluggish. It was suggested that with the ending of the rebate programs, car sales will continue to be slow. In many areas, department stores are engaging in large promotional campaigns in an attempt to attract buyers. However, it was felt that consumers are reluctant to spend due to fears over the weakening state of the economy. Employment Most areas in the region are reporting a slight upswing in unemployment. The construction-related industries are still in a major recession. Little improvement is expected until interest rates fall. The Pacific Northwest continues to be especially hard hit as its economy is highly dependent on the forest products industry. Employment in the electronics and computer industries continues to benefit from increased demand. Plant expansions continue to create new employment opportunities. Aerospace employment has leveled off as orders, especially for older craft, have declined. Real Estate Little activity in the housing market is being reported. With mortgage rates as high as 18 percent, few potential buyers are able or willing to obtain mortgage loans. Home buyers are very reluctant to obtain adjustable rate mortgages even though they are being offered at lower interest rates than other mortgage instruments. Commercial construction appears to be tailing off. Vacancy rates are on the rise and builders are hesitant to engage in any new activity. In some cases these rates have doubled from last year's level. Prices An optimistic outlook is being expressed over the short-run inflation picture. Housing, energy, and food prices appear to be significantly holding down inflation. With high interest rates discouraging home buyers, housing prices appear to be leveling off. The oil glut has helped to lower gasoline prices. Food prices have also dropped slightly. It was indicated that consumers appear to be staying away from high priced items and this, too, has helped to keep prices down. However, most are dubious that the improved inflation picture will remain past the summer. If the economy begins to expand, prices, especially for raw materials, are expected to accelerate. Agriculture Agricultural prospects remain bright. For the most part, recent rains have eased concerns over a potential water shortage. The rains delayed the cotton planting, but a good crop is projected. Despite a freeze in the Pacific Northwest, the apple crop may be as large as last year's record harvest. Wheat farmers are expecting high prices for their product, and farmers in general are said to be in as good a financial position as they have been in five years. Financial Institutions The outflow of funds from savings and loan associations is said to be reaching record levels. This outflow is adversely affecting both the profitability of these institutions and the availability of funds for residential housing. Consumers are better informed and are less willing to be satisfied with below market rates. There seems to be an increased call for legislative action that would aid thrifts and banks. Most desire an easing of restrictions so that these institutions could compete on a more equal footing with money market funds. Many argue that thrift institutions, with their aging portfolios of mortgage loans, can be in serious trouble in the very near term if interest rates do not go down and legislative action is not taken. The FSLIC insurance reserves are deemed insufficient to withstand the demands that are likely to be imposed. Banking activity is relatively slow. Lending activity has slowed for both commercial and consumer loans.