Overview Responses to our latest survey of Fifth District business conditions suggest a modest downturn has occurred over the past month. On balance, manufacturers contacted report slight declines in shipments, new orders, and order backlogs. For many, however, shipments and new orders seem to have held their own and there remain isolated areas of moderate strength. Retailers report little change in total sales, but sales of big-ticket items have slowed in recent weeks. Employment appears to have fallen in both the manufacturing and retail sectors. The inventory situation is mixed. Retailers experienced some buildup over the month. Manufacturers report significant accumulation of materials while stocks of finished goods are down sharply from a month ago. In general, loan demand across the District has been moderate, but residential mortgage activity continues weak. Recent severe weather conditions have attenuated earlier optimism concerning crop and livestock production prospects. Crop conditions remain generally favorable, but have declined in some areas over the past two weeks. Consumer Spending It is difficult to discern any clear pattern in consumer activity. Significant disparities exist among localities and sectors. Our survey suggests little change in total retail sales from a month ago, but some weakness in big-ticket items, particularly automobiles. Overall, however, demand for consumer installment loans is seen as moderate with significant strength appearing in some areas. Among general merchandise lines, those of better quality continue to be the better performers. Those retailers surveyed report inventories unchanged to slightly higher and employment unchanged to slightly lower. Richmond directors also found little change in retail inventories other than automobiles. Automobile dealers have experienced rising inventories, but this has been attributed to seasonal factors. The Manufacturing Sector In the manufacturing sector activity declined modestly over the latest survey period. This decline was most noticeable in new orders and order backlogs, but shipments were also off slightly. The textile, building materials, furniture, and electrical equipment industries held their own over the month, but most other groups seem to have experienced some relative weakness. According to our survey respondents, materials inventories have risen lately while stocks of finished goods were down sharply. Our directors, for the most part characterized manufacturing inventories as steady. Nonetheless, over half of manufacturers surveyed feel current inventory levels are higher than desired. Employment was off slightly among those surveyed, but the average workweek was unchanged. The Financial Sector Loan demand has generally been steady in recent weeks but does seem to vary by type of loan and locality. Commercial and industrial loans have been weak to moderate with only isolated areas of significant strength. Demand for consumer installment loans has been steady and moderate in most areas, but, once again, areas of strength have emerged. Demand for non-residential and, particularly, residential mortgages continues to be weak. The Outlook and Prices Manufacturers and retailers surveyed report a continued abatement of puce increases. Over 40 percent of the manufacturers surveyed paid no higher prices than a month ago, and over two-thirds held the line on prices received. Nearly half of the retail respondents reported no change in prices paid and received over the month. Manufacturers are somewhat less optimistic than a month ago about the business outlook, but retailers are decidedly so. Fewer than half of the retailers expect business activity nationally, locally, and in their respective firms to improve over the next six months. Nearly one respondent out of eight, from both sectors, expects business to deteriorate over that period. The Agriculture Sector Fifth District crop production prospects for 1981 were fairly optimistic as of mid-June. With the exception of soybeans, virtually all spring and summer crop plantings were complete. Conditions of the major crops were reportedly as follows: tobacco, good to excellent; peanuts, fair to excellent; cotton, fair to good; corn, fair to excellent but mostly good; and early-planted soybeans, peaches, and apples, mostly good. High temperatures caused crop conditions to decline in South Carolina during the third week of June however, and resulted in the loss of more than 75,000 broilers and breeder hens in North Carolina.