Summary Respondents in the Fourth District generally expect very little growth in output through the third quarter, and many are beginning to lower their inflation forecast for 1981. Manufacturing activity in the District continues to expand, although signs of third quarter weakness are emerging. Consumer spending, weakened by the second quarter slump in auto sales, is expected to strengthen in the third quarter. Bank lending activity has increased in June, partly due to financing business inventories. Local housing construction has declined again in June, as saving flows into S&Ls have weakened further. Outlook The tone of the Fourth District Round Table meeting early in June was somewhat more optimistic with respect to output and prices in 1981 than at the March meeting. The median forecast of the 30 participants shows growth in real GNP of 3.2 percent between the fourth quarter of 1980 and the fourth quarter of 1981, and 4.0 percent in the subsequent four-quarter period. One-third of the group still expects real GNP to decline in the second quarter (-1.4 percent, according to the median forecast), but all 30 expect resumption of at least mild growth in the third quarter. The projected acceleration in growth of output later this year is in response to a personal tax-rate reduction and less intense inflation that will increase growth in real income. Nearly two-thirds of the group assume that growth in M- 1B in 1981 will be within its long-run target range and the balance expect that growth will exceed the upper limit of the range. The bulk of the group expects a Federal deficit for fiscal year 1981 in the range of $55-60 billion and a deficit for 1982 in the range of $45-55 billion. Prices Fourth District economists scaled down their forecast of the GNP implicit price deflator a little from the March Round Table meeting. The median forecast now shows the deflator increasing by 9.1 percent in 1981 (fourth quarter to fourth quarter) and 8.6 percent in 1982. While most participants expect a gradually decelerating inflation trend to provide thrust to economic activity, many remain doubtful that the underlying inflation rate has changed much, despite recent moderation in consumer and producer prices. Some raised doubts that farm price declines will continue much longer. Manufacturing Activity The latest monthly Survey of Fourth District Manufacturing indicates continued expansion in shipments and orders in June, although some easing in the pace is occurring. A steel economist reports a letup in steel orders in recent weeks, apparently because of a sharp rise in imports and hedging prior to the price increase in June. Aluminum orders for the second half of 1981 are weak virtually across the board, according to an aluminum industry economist, and some cutback in production is anticipated in the third quarter. Also, two regional crude-oil refineries in the District are still operating at about 70 percent of capacity. Backlogs of machine tool orders have been steadily cut to 12 months from 18 months a year-ago, according to an industry economist. The long slide in machine tool orders is unlikely to be reversed for another quarter or two. The spending surge for machine tools by the auto industry has peaked, judging from recent cancellations and deferrals of spending by GMC, especially for production of additional four- cylinder engine capacity. In view of the letup in capital spending by the auto industry, some machine tool producers believe they have sufficient capacity to accommodate an upswing in defense orders before reaching supply constraints, perhaps in 1983. Consumer Goods Despite a second-quarter decline attributed largely to weakened auto sales, consumer spending should increase by about 3 percent in 1981, according to an economist for a major department store chain. Retail sales of food items are expected to be flat over the year, but real growth in department store sales should reach 4 percent. A packaging producer for nondurable consumer goods reports that shipments of corrugated boxes, usually a reliable coincident indicator, have been dropping slowly. Several producers of durable consumer goods report that inventories continue to be tight at plant and retail levels, with some seasonally volatile items (such as air conditioners) experiencing slow deliveries as a result of low stocks. Auto producers have been trying to influence dealers to step up orders for the remainder of this model year, but dealers are reluctant to order because of high interest rates on floor plans and an uncertain consumer market. An auto industry economist states that May and June should be a post-rebate low point in auto sales, and summer months are expected to show increases, on a seasonally adjusted basis. This assumes, however, continued moderation in consumer prices, further declines in gasoline prices, and lower interest rates. The economist asserts that availability of installment credit, hindered by usury ceilings in many states, is depressing auto sales rather than higher interest rates. Banking Loan demand by businesses has increased in recent months, but consumer loan demand remains weak. A bank economist reports that C&I loans recorded a strong increase in June. Inventory financing and a need for working capital appear to be significant factors for the step-up in borrowing from small and middle-sized corporations. Continuation of interest rates at current levels could have a crippling effect on smaller businesses over the next three to six months, according to several bank economists. Consumer installment lending continues to decline, according to a local bank official, but at a slower rate than during the first quarter. However, an area banker expects installment lending to receive a boost from new car buying in the fall. Credit card usage is showing signs of bottoming out. Housing Mortgage loan demand remains very weak in the District, with mortgage rates rising to as high as 18 percent on conventional 80 percent mortgages. A 100-basis-point advantage on renegotiable-rate- mortgages has not overcome consumer reluctance to buy homes under current market conditions, according to an S&L official. An official for a major builder reports that orders for new houses in the second quarter are 30 percent below normal, with each month showing progressive weakness. The current order pattern, along with rising mortgage rates, does not suggest a revival in housing starts similar to that which occurred last summer. Savings flows into S&Ls may fall as sharply in June as in April, according to an economist for a regional FHLB in the District. An S&L that has benefited from a promotion to attract funds to their six-month money-market certificate in May reports that competition from other S&Ls and higher rates offered by commercial banks have reduced savings flows in June. Several S&L officials see little relief from their earnings problem this quarter or next. Losses this quarter will apparently be even more widespread than last, which will aggravate those associations that have already been operating with relatively low liquidity. An S&L official asserts that the proposed tax-free savings certificate would promptly improve the supply of and demand for mortgages, although several others feel such an instrument would be too late to benefit this selling season.