Summary Seventh District business activity, overall, is unlikely to show significant improvement in the second and third quarters, although many firms will report good gains from the depressed periods of 1980. This prospect suggests continued adverse comparisons with the national economy. Most business firms now anticipate lower sales in the near-term than they had expected a few months ago. Moreover, a smaller rise in farm income is projected. Construction plans, both residential and nonresidential, have been scaled down. Loans are available in virtually all credit markets, but high interest rates deter borrowing. With rising personal income, retail sales have held up well. There is a widespread view that an acceleration in general activity will begin late in 1981, and continue into 1982. Such forecasts assume lower interest rates, tax rate reductions, a boost from defense spending, and further easing of inflationary pressures. Employment Demand for workers is weak. New layoffs or extended vacations have been announced recently for farm equipment, meat packing, and electrical products. However, claims for unemployment compensation are running well below last year's level. Indefinite layoffs reported by auto producers are down to 160,000 from 240,000 last year. Summer jobs for youth are hard to find, partly because of cutbacks in CETA programs. Various state and local governments have frozen hirings. Many help-wanted ads in district newspapers attempt to lure skilled workers to the South and West. Personal income and labor negotiations Worker compensation continues to rise at a rate of about 9 percent in the district, despite a surplus of workers. Efforts of employers to get organized labor to moderate new demands, or to renegotiate existing contracts, have been successful only under a threat to shut down the operation. Mass transit workers of the financially-strapped Chicago-area RTA system threaten walkouts over any move to adjust their liberal compensation and work rules. Building trades have negotiated 8.5 to 11 percent increases this year. Retail sales Some very large retail chains have been pleased by double-digit increases in sales in recent weeks. They are using heavy promotions and aggressive pricing. Consumer credit delinquencies remain high. Most big ticket items often bought on credit are not selling well. Most general merchandise chains are losing money. An old chain has filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11. Vacation travel and sales of recreational vehicles are being aided by ready availability of gasoline. Inventories Most firms are holding inventories at low levels to reduce heavy finance charges. Expected price increases no longer spur anticipatory advance buying. In some cases product lines have been narrowed and delivery times have been allowed to stretch out in order to economize on working capital. Low inventories act as a buffer against any possible recession, but they also provide a springboard for faster inflation if final demand accelerates. Steel Orders for steel slowed somewhat in the past month, partly for seasonal reasons. Steel demand is very strong for "oil country goods", and is above last year for vehicles and appliances. Orders for structural steel have softened. More steel users are buying from service centers in order to keep their own inventories low. Total steel shipments from U.S. mills are now projected at 93 million tons for 1981, up from 84 million in 1980, but well below 100 million in 1979. Capital goods Most district producers of capital goods report new orders well below their capacity and below expectations expressed earlier. The weakest sectors are equipment for construction, mining, and railroads. Demand for farm equipment and heavy trucks has been disappointing. Equipment for oil and gas exploration is booked to capacity, but this sector is relatively unimportant here. Autos and trucks Sales of autos and trucks have remained at low levels. Output of cars and trucks in the second and third quarters will substantially exceed last year s reduced levels, but will remain far below the prosperous levels of 1978. Inventories may rise in the months ahead partly to encourage concessions by the UAW. Residential construction Housing starts are running somewhat above last year's very depressed level in district centers. Home mortgages are offered at 16.5 to 17.5 percent or more, but with few takers. "Creative financing" is not helping much. Many S&Ls and banks are not making any mortgage loans. It is already too late in the season for lower interest rates to help housing construction in the district this year. Nonresidential construction A large number of smaller shopping centers, office buildings, warehouses, and other nonresidential construction projects were postponed in May and June. Interest rates of 14 percent or more, often with equity participations, are too high to attract developers. Most life insurance companies and pension funds have halted all commitments on commercial mortgages. Public construction is very weak, especially road work. Agriculture Recent rains eased remaining drought concerns in parts of Iowa. However, plantings, already unusually late in the Eastern cornbelt, were further delayed. These developments are dampening hopes for good crop yields in the Midwest. Farm income in the Midwest was especially suppressed in the first half because of low livestock prices. These prices have risen in the past two months, and are approaching breakeven levels after a prolonged period of losses. High interest rates and low farm earnings are blamed for sluggish capital spending by farmers. Revised industry projections put 1981 sales of farm equipment only modestly above the depressed level of 1980 instead of the strong rebound expected earlier.