The Fourth District's economy continued to expand at a moderate pace during the past six weeks. On balance, demand for manufactured products grew at a moderate rate. Housing market activity held steady; nonetheless, sales of new and existing homes were above year-ago levels. Nonresidential builders saw an overall pick-up in business. Retailers reported stronger sales during August and September, while new motor-vehicle purchases posted moderate gains on a year-over-year basis. Shale-gas activity is showing signs of moderating due to low natural gas prices; still, production is at historic highs. Output at coal mines trended lower. The rate of growth in freight volume has slowed. Applications for business credit were flat, while consumer credit demand rose slightly.
Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors. Staffing-firm representatives reported that the number of job openings and placements increased slightly, with vacancies found primarily in healthcare and manufacturing. Wage pressures remain contained. Input and finished goods prices saw little change, apart from increases in residential construction materials.
Only a few manufacturers reported that they are moving forward with capacity expansion plans. Other producers said that they see a need to expand capacity, but they will not proceed because of uncertainty about the economy. One manufacturer commented that he will postpone any expansion until GDP grows at a sustained rate of 3 percent. Capital outlays are being allocated primarily for productivity enhancements. Several manufacturers indicated that they are taking a more conservative stance toward upcoming capital budgets until there is a higher degree of certainty about future demand. Raw material and finished goods prices were generally flat. Factories expanded payrolls at a sluggish pace. Several contacts expect production wages will rise between 2 and 3 percent in the near term. There is anxiety about rising health insurance premiums, which was attributed to the Affordable Care Act.
Nonresidential builders reported an overall pick-up in business, but it remains difficult to move projects from the pipeline to a contract signing due to uncertainty on the part of clients. Very large projects are few in number, and renovations are more prevalent than new building in some regions of the District. In general, business is stronger than a year ago. Inquiries and backlogs have strengthened since our last report. The strongest activity was in manufacturing, distribution, healthcare, and multifamily housing. A developer of retail space characterized his industry as strong and much more positive than two years ago. He noted a decline in regional mall footprints due to chain consolidation and on-line shopping. Our contacts were fairly optimistic about near-term growth prospects, but they are concerned about unresolved fiscal policy issues.
Prices for residential construction materials--lumber and drywall--have increased substantially in the past year, but the rate of increase is slowing. General contractors reported very limited hiring of field and office workers. Many builders cited a scarcity of high-skilled trade workers, many of whom left the industry during the recession and are not returning. As a result, there is upward pressure on wages, and subcontractors are demanding higher rates. Subcontractors are also having difficulty obtaining operating capital.
Year-to-date sales through August of new motor vehicles showed a moderate increase when compared to the same time period a year ago. On a month-over-month basis, purchases of new vehicles were only slightly higher during August versus July. Buyers continue to prefer smaller, fuel-efficient vehicles, although trucks are in big demand in regions with considerable shale-gas activity. New-vehicle inventories are lower than desired, which dealers attributed to the model-year changeover. Our contacts are optimistic about sales for the remainder of the year. They project that sales volume for 2013 will be about 10 percent higher than in 2012 due to pent-up demand, the availability of financing, and the option to lease. Used-vehicle purchases increased during the past six weeks. Employment levels at dealerships held steady. Many of our contacts are concerned about the implementation of the Affordable Care Act and the effect it will have on their total labor cost.
