District economic conditions improved modestly, on balance, since our last report. Manufacturing shipments and new orders softened, with only a few producers reporting strength. Retail revenues were flat to modestly higher, and auto sales improved year over year, although a few dealers reported recent flattening. Conditions were mixed at non-retail services firms, with some slowing in tourism. Lending activity increased slightly, and competition for quality loans was intense. Residential real estate sales improved, except for higher end homes, and there were some reports of new home construction. Commercial leasing varied by location and new construction was limited, except for multi-family housing. While excessive summer rain may reduce some crops, peanut yields were bountiful.  Natural gas production rose and expansion was expected to continue; in contrast, coal mining declined further. Labor markets grew slowly, despite difficulty finding skilled workers. Average wages rose at a faster pace across the board. Prices grew more quickly in the service sector and at manufacturing firms.
Tourist bookings slowed from recent strong growth. Although the federal government shutdown closed some tourist attractions, those closures did not result in guest cancellations, according to several hotel contacts. Bookings were flat for a hotel on the Maryland side of the Chesapeake Bay, and a central North Carolina hotel reported unusually slow bookings. A hotel manager in the Tidewater, Virginia area reported that summer finished on a strong note, but the autumn market of government and association bookings was below normal. A tourism contact on the outer banks of North Carolina told us that hotel bookings and rentals were stable, with family stays during Thanksgiving becoming increasingly popular. A resort manager in western Virginia has already received a few early season ski reservations. An hotelier in the North Carolina Piedmont expected a strong October for leaf viewing and a sold-out holiday season.
Commercial development of multi-family housing has remained strong. A central Virginia Realtor reported that there is virtually no new speculative commercial building, and medical construction is either build to suit or with sixty to eighty percent of tenants. In contrast, smaller scale, single family residential development there picked up, and construction and renovation of apartment buildings was strong. He added that leasing activity was "reasonable" for smaller tenants; rents firmed and there were fewer incentives. Commercial leasing slowed in the D.C. area, according to a contact who told us people are "punting a little" before making decisions on five to ten year leases and construction. A central North Carolina real estate broker reported that retail leasing had improved slightly. Another Realtor in that state said last year's incentives were burning off, and leasing activity was steady. He commented that vacant office space was sufficient except for very large blocks, while industrial warehouse construction was picking up despite rising construction costs. In West Virginia, a Realtor noted that increased calls and site visits did not necessarily translate into a new purchase agreement.
Natural gas production rose since our last report. A contact noted that some wells on the perimeter of production areas in West Virginia have produced more than expected, leading to speculation that the ultimate production area may be larger than originally defined. As always, further expansion will depend on prices, which declined in recent weeks. More pipeline was added, while the rig count remained static. Coal production in the District declined, with the year-to-date percentage drop in Maryland and Virginia both in double digits. West Virginia coal production also fell, although the drop was not as steep.
