Overview According to Sixth District contacts, the Southeast economy grew at a moderate pace through May and early June, led by gains in consumer spending and single-family housing. Retailers reported moderate increases in consumer spending, with particular strength noted for auto sales. Realtors and contractors continued to see favorable developments in most single-family housing markets, but multifamily and commercial construction remain weak. Manufacturers reported that factory activity generally was stable through May, with increased production noted in consumer goods and transportation equipment. However, manufacturing contacts also noted that expectations of future activity have been revised downward in recent months. While commercial loan demand has not grown much in the last month, bankers said that consumer lending has improved in most market areas, especially financing for new car purchases. Consumer Spending Retailers throughout the District reported that consumer expenditures improved on a year-over-year basis through the end of May, with particular strength noted during the Memorial Day holiday weekend. Sales increases were recorded not only for apparel and home improvement products, but also for big ticket consumer durables and autos. Still, for the first time in several months, retailers have begun to express some concern that current spending momentum may be waning. Tourism and business travel remain strong, and most contacts in the hospitality industry expect further improvement through the summer as air passenger traffic and convention attendance continue to outpace year-ago levels. Manufacturing According to District manufacturers, factory activity remained stable through May, although reports for particular types of manufacturing were mixed. At the same time, expectations concerning business conditions six months from now have been revised downward. Contacts in the textile industry noted that current demand in the home furnishings segment of their business remained strong, while manufacturers and other suppliers linked to automobile and light truck production reported that recent increases in new orders have pushed factory utilization rates to near capacity levels. Manufacturers of construction and other industrial equipment, however, have seen a recent decline in new orders, some of which they attributed to uncertainties generated by the current political debate over federal fiscal policies. Several firms reported that these uncertainties have served to limit their hiring of new employees, and, in general, hiring reports from manufacturers have been more modest than in recent months. Construction According to realtors and contractors, single-family housing markets continue to improve in most of the District. Home sales in May were reported as brisk, with sales in many areas exceeding strong year- ago levels. Improved sales were observed in all price ranges, and new listings were said to be selling much more quickly than in the recent past. Increased demand and tightening inventories of homes for sale have pushed contract prices up, and contractors have now begun to pass higher lumber prices on to new home buyers. Builders reported that single-family residential construction is doing well, and that the outlook through the summer remains very good. Although multifamily construction activity remains weak, rising occupancy levels and effective rental rates have stimulated some new apartment development. Commercial real estate markets also remain sluggish. Despite isolated reports of improved absorption and leasing activity, commercial realtors said that there is an abundant supply of office, retail, and industrial space for rent in most areas. Although there has been some recent increase in build-to-suit construction activity, no new speculative construction has been announced recently. Financial Services Bankers in the District reported that loan demand was mixed in May and early June, with consumer lending showing some improvement while business financing continues to be relatively flat. Consumer lending, especially for new car purchases, picked up moderately in May in most of the District. Residential mortgage lending also continues at a strong pace, although the wave of refinancing has peaked and begun to slow. Commercial loan demand has been relatively flat, and bankers report that this has stimulated fierce competition for new business loans. Wages and Prices Manufacturers reported that prices for finished products and raw materials were basically unchanged in the last month. However, contractors reported that after reaching a peak in March, lumber prices have been slowly falling, while packagers reported that the cost of paper has risen in recent weeks. There were no reports of increasing wage pressures.