Summary Economic expansion in the District continued in May and early June. Reports from retailers and consumer goods manufacturers suggest that retail sales growth picked up modestly, aided in part by pent-up demand after unseasonably bad weather in the first quarter. Manufacturing activity continued its expansion, with slowing growth in some sectors offset by improving results in several industries that had previously been weak. Motor vehicle production continued to gain momentum, with output plans for the third quarter calling for a significant increase over year-earlier levels. Survey-based measures and reports from individual businesses gave no evidence of significant upward pressure on prices. Retail Sales Reports from large retailers and manufacturers of consumer goods suggest that consumer demand increased in the District in recent months. A large department store chain reported that sales growth in the Midwest increased moderately (on a seasonally adjusted basis) in May and early June, after a snapback in April from weather-depressed levels in the first quarter. Sales strength remained concentrated in durable goods, notably appliances and home improvement items. Credit utilization continued to rise and delinquency rates continued to improve. A large discount chain reported improvement in traffic and increased sales momentum during May and early June. This firm expected same-store sales growth to improve modestly in the latter half of 1993. A manufacturer of home entertainment products reported that shipments gains continued in the early part of the second quarter, and stated that feedback from dealers suggested that sales growth should continue into the summer. This contact stated that "inventories are not a problem, either for us or our dealers." An electronic industries association reported that year-over-year growth in retail sales of consumer electronics slowed modestly during the second quarter, but stated that "sales are still going well, after 1993 got off to a great start." Manufacturing Purchasing managers' surveys and reports from individual manufacturers indicate that production growth also continued in recent months. The production component of purchasing managers' surveys in Chicago and Milwaukee followed the national pattern by slipping back marginally in recent months, but both of these indicators remained at levels consistent with continued expansion in activity. The production component of the Detroit survey climbed again during May to a level above those for Chicago, Milwaukee and the nation as a whole, reflecting relative strength being experienced in the motor vehicle industry. Purchasing managers surveys conducted in Western Michigan were also indicative of somewhat stronger production trends than those in Chicago and Milwaukee. Reports from individual manufacturers west mostly positive. After lagging the recovery in much of the District's industrial sector, several manufacturers of construction machinery increased their production plans in recent months. One of these firms cited increased economic activity, growth in corporate cash flow, and favorable financial conditions as leading to "an upbeat domestic environment for the first time in a long time." The turnaround in demand for this firm's products has been led by housing activity, but demand for equipment used in nonresidential construction recently began to improve as well. A manufacturer of heavy-duty trucks reported that orders continued to run at high levels, but stated that "there may be some chinks in the armor," noting modestly increased cancellation rates. This contact noted that recent strengthening in medium-duty truck orders has been concentrated in leasing and rental firms. A heavy-duty truck industry analyst reported that production continued to rise on a seasonally adjusted basis during May. A large supplier to heavy-duty truck manufacturers reported that the pace of expansion in its own production has leveled off somewhat, but this contact also noted a recent pickup in orders from medium-duty truck manufacturers, a market that had been dormant for some time. A steel industry analyst reported that order books for integrated manufacturers are generally full into the fourth quarter, primarily due to strength in demand from auto and appliance producers, but also due to recent strengthening in construction and, to a lesser extent, agricultural machinery markets. A diversified manufacturer of heavy machinery stated that orders for its oilfield machinery and material handling equipment remained relatively weak. A manufacturer of plumbing products expressed some concern about recent trends in housing activity, but another producer reported that shipments of equipment linked to housing construction continued to run at good levels. Autos Production of light vehicles continued to gain momentum in May and early June, and several large automakers released third quarter assembly schedules calling for significant further improvement in production. Contacts with several automakers recently revised upward their forecasts for vehicle sales in 1993. One stressed that vehicle sales should not be seen as being detached from the rest of the economy; "modest gains in employment and income, reduced consumer debt, low interest rates and pent-up demand are all factors driving the recovery forward." Another large automaker remained confident regarding future sales growth, especially on the retail side of the market. This contact stated that increased production schedules appear very reasonable, in part because dealer orders have been outpacing sales. A large bank reported that commercial and industrial loan growth in Michigan has been running above the national average, citing strength in demand from auto suppliers. Auto suppliers generally reported stronger orders and improved assessments of the potential for further gains in the latter half of 1993. One supplier expected sales gains in the second and third quarters to run in line with those in the past six months, with all of the expected gains arising due to increased volume; "customers are not paying our price increases." Prices Purchasing managers' surveys suggest that price pressures in the District's industrial sector moderated in recent months, while reports from a wide variety of individual firms gave no evidence of significant upward pressure on prices. The price component of the Chicago purchasing managers' survey rose at one of the highest rates in the past decade over the five months ending in March, then fell back somewhat in April and May. The price component of the Detroit survey also gave back some ground in recent months. Two large retailers continued to emphasize that intense competitive pressures in retailing are still holding down prices to consumers. One of these firms stated that price increases are generally running in line with, or slightly lower than, those experienced at this time last year. A manufacturer of consumer products also noted that intensified competition at the retail level has left little room for price increases by producers of consumer electronics. A chemical producer stated that overcapacity in production has dampened price increases in this segment of the company's business, while input price changes (except for steel) also have been relatively modest. A producer or heavy machinery expressed skepticism about the sustainability of recent or continued increases in steel prices. An auto supplier noted some new price increases in purchased materials, but stated that they were modest and selective by type of input. Earlier in 1993, some manufacturing contacts reported seeing larger price increases than normal for that time of year, but these posted increases were also accompanied by deeper discounts. A manufacturer of heavy equipment experiencing renewed strength in most of its business lines cited the lack of a generalized upturn in demand for commodities as the most important factor leading sales of mining equipment to lag the companywide average. One manufacturer in an international market stated "many of the price increases we do see are coming from the import side." Agriculture The pace in crop plantings improved considerably in recent weeks, overcoming most of the earlier delays from cool, wet weather. The delays may result in some modest shifting in the mix of crop acres. However, analysts believe that virtually all of the intended corn acreage in District states was seeded prior to the passing of critical planting dates. (June 15 is generally regarded as the latest acceptable date for planting corn.) Early crop development, both for field crops and for much of the District's vegetable acreage, is below normal due to the late plantings. However, moisture supplies in most areas are adequate to abundant and the return of warmer weather brings hopes for faster crop development.