Summary Disparate economic conditions continue in the Twelfth District with the weakest performance reported in California. Contacts in most other District states are reporting expanding economic activity. In California, manufacturing activity continues to slump, construction and real estate markets remain weak, and retail sales and financial activity are flat. Weakness in aerospace also has dampened growth in western Washington. Outside of these regions, growth is reported in several sectors, with overall conditions strongest in eastern Washington, Utah, and Idaho. Overall business sentiment has deteriorated since early 1993, with most contacts expecting continued slow growth. Contacts report that uncertainty regarding several federal policies is delaying business investment and hiring decisions. Agricultural conditions are generally favorable, although recent wet, cool weather is harming several fruit and vegetable crops in California and Oregon. Business Sentiment Sentiment among Twelfth District business leaders has deteriorated since the first quarter of 1993. Less than half of the respondents now expect the real economy to expand during the next four quarters at a rate of at least 2.5 percent. This proportion is down from two- thirds in April and three-quarters in March. The majority of our respondents expect the economy to expand, but at a rate less than 2.5 percent. In general, contacts from Idaho, Oregon, and Utah expect their regions to perform better than the national average. Most contacts in California and Washington, however, expect their regions to underperform the national average. Retail Trade and Services A national retailer reports that, while May was the best month of the year, sales at the beginning of June were sluggish and conditions in California remain flat. A national grocery retailer reports that consumers remain cautious and that California food sales are down, with club stores continuing to take business from grocery chains. A contact from California reports continued subpar consumer spending and continued corporate restructuring in retail trade. In contrast, a contact in telecommunications in California reports a slight pickup in demand during the past few months compared to the fourth quarter of 1992. Auto sales are showing strength in certain markets. In the Puget Sound area, sales of domestic autos in May were reported up 8 percent over a year earlier and import sales were reported up 12 percent. Auto sales were also reported strong by contacts in Arizona, Idaho, and Utah. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity is mixed in the District, with weakness centered in aerospace and defense-related industries. In Washington, aerospace employment is down due to cutbacks at Boeing. A contact from California reports that manufacturing remains in a serious slump, with aerospace hardest hit and primary and fabricated metals manufacturing activity also down. Overall activity in high-tech electronics also is down in California, except for selected computer products such as laptops which are experiencing strong demand. In Oregon, however, electronics production remains strong, and in Utah manufacturing activity is expanding in a diverse set of products including auto airbags, medical devices, sports equipment, and computer software. Railroad freight traffic is improving in western states, and is projected to be up 3.1 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier. Several contacts are reporting that uncertainty regarding federal tax and spending policies is delaying business investment and hiring plans. In Oregon, a contact reports that a number of projects expected to go into construction in the second half of the year are in jeopardy. The ongoing discussion regarding health care reform reportedly also is delaying investment in pharmaceutical and bio- tech industries. Finally, uncertainty regarding trade policy is of concern for importers, and also is reported to have delayed some investment decisions. Trade policy towards China (now temporarily resolved) is reported especially important to the Washington economy, where new airplane orders from Chinese airlines to Boeing in part have made up for cancellations from domestic airlines. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries While most contacts report a generally good outlook for agriculture, the recent wet, cool weather is harming many crops. Field and vegetable crops are showing below normal growth, tree crops are tending to be light to normal, and mold and mildew are showing up on some fruit and grape crops. Contacts report generally good livestock conditions. The outlook for seafood, however, is reported poor and grain exports are reported slowing. Construction and Real Estate District real estate and construction markets show widely disparate conditions, with the weakest performance reported in southern California. A contact from the region reports that residential prices have fallen 10 to 40 percent in the last 2 years, depending on the market. Another contact reports that commercial real estate values in southern California continue to decline, with vacancy rates high and little building. A contact from northern California reports that while commercial real estate conditions remain slow with few sales, rents have stabilized. Other regions are showing strength. Conditions in Arizona are reported firm, with commercial rents increasing slightly and home sales strong. Housing markets in eastern Washington, Utah, and Idaho are reported to be very strong. Financial Institutions Mixed conditions are reported across District financial markets. Contacts in California report continued weakness in loan demand. A contact from Arizona reports a general reluctance to borrow, and a lack of good lending opportunities. Utah banking continues strong, with slightly heavier demand for commercial loans. Loan demand in Hawaii is reported soft except for home loans. A shortage of insurance for real estate, however, is reported because of Hurricane Iniki.