Overview The Fifth District economy continued to grow at a modest, uneven pace in May and early June. In some localities recent announcements of possible District military base closings dampened growth. In the District as a whole, however, retail sales edged higher while manufacturing activity remained steady. Activity at ports was mixed. Real estate activity rose with residential sales sharply higher in most areas and commercial vacancy rates slightly lower. Despite steady mortgage originations, overall loan demand weakened slightly. Good weather helped farmers complete spring planting and assisted hotel, motel, and resort bookings over the Memorial Day weekend. Consumer Spending Our regular mail survey indicated that retail activity was mixed in May. Survey respondents reported that sales increased slightly, but shopper traffic and employment declined. Wages, wholesale prices, and retail prices rose. Retailers indicated little change in the level of general business activity in their local areas. Respondents were optimistic about the next six months. They anticipated Increases in sales and shopper traffic. They expected wages, prices, and capital expenditures to rise. Manufacturing Manufacturers indicated that District activity remained steady during the past month. They reported little change in most indicators. They noted decreases in order backlogs and inventories and increases in finished goods prices. Manufacturers cited weak demand as their most important problem. Respondents were optimistic about their prospects for the next six months. New orders, shipments, and capital expenditures were expected to increase, but inventories and the number of employees were expected to decline. Respondents looked for order backlogs and employee hours to remain steady. Military Base Closure List Officials at local chambers of commerce reported that local business activity had not dropped as a result of the announcement in May of potential military base closures, but businessmen from the areas indicated that increased job uncertainty associated with the announcement had hampered growth. Nearly a dozen Fifth District military bases were added to the list of possible closures. Many of those bases, particularly those in eastern Virginia, are major employers in their regions. Ports Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that imports rose in May compared to April while exports fell. Measured against a year ago, imports were generally higher and exports were generally lower. All three ports expected exports to increase faster than imports during the next six months. Tourism Hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity in May and in the first week of June increased when compared to April and a year ago. Respondents attributed the increase to unseasonably good weather and to better marketing strategies. Although most respondents reported that they were booked to capacity on Memorial Day weekend, summer bookings were only slightly better than last year. Despite slow summer bookings, most of the respondents still expected tourist activity to improve during the next six months. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that over the last six weeks, commercial loan demand was marginally lower while consumer loan demand strengthened somewhat. Commercial and consumer loan rates were steady. Residential mortgage demand fell somewhat during the last six weeks. Refinancing activity declined sharply while new mortgage originations were steady. Residential mortgage lending rates were flat. Residential Real Estate Real estate analysts and homebuilders surveyed by telephone reported increased residential activity during the past six weeks. Residential sales rose in all District jurisdictions except North Carolina, and especially strong sales were noted for homes in the lower price ranges. In North Carolina, the residential market remained strong, but sales leveled off in Raleigh and weakened slightly in Charlotte after posting particularly strong gains earlier in the year. Residential sales in West Virginia continued to grow substantially, drawing down the inventory of existing homes and spurring new construction. Residential sales were said to be especially strong around Morgantown. Home prices remained mostly steady during the past six weeks, although realtors in some areas reported slight increases. Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate activity improved in most areas of the District during the past six weeks but remained weak around Baltimore. Office, retail, and industrial vacancy rates fell somewhat in most metropolitan areas, especially in the suburbs. Analysts in Washington, D.C. and Charlotte noted that large blocks of class A space were relatively scarce in their downtown markets. Virtually no speculative building was underway, but several preleased office and industrial buildings were started. Agriculture Clear weather during most of late May and early June allowed farm activity to progress at a faster pace. District farmers completed their spring planting after having fallen behind schedule earlier in the season. Crops were mostly in good condition, although severe thunderstorms and hail had damaged the tobacco and corn crops in southern Virginia and there were reports of insect damage in some areas of the District. Haymaking and the harvesting of small grains for forage were underway. Pastures and cattle were reported to be in good condition.