Summary Recent changes in District economic activity have been mixed. Numerous firms report uncertainty and trepidation concerning the budget deficit and health care proposals. Many retailers report that consumers also seem hesitant, as they are unwilling to commit to major purchases until they see the results of Congressional deliberations. Despite continued wet weather, District homebuilding is still on the upswing in most areas. Total loan growth has slowed at large District banks in recent months. Cool, wet weather continues to stymie farmers in many areas of the District. Consumer Spending Retail sales in the District have increased modestly over one year ago. Sales are reportedly up between 2 percent and 3 percent; some in St. Louis report double-digit increases. Most contacts felt that their year-to-date sales expectations had been met. Price cutting to spur sales was reported only in Louisville, and only for jewelry. Contacts also report that consumers remain cautious about the effects of prospective fiscal policy changes. Most retailers, however, are optimistic about this fall and expect increased sales without many price cuts. District auto dealers report that new and used domestic car sales are on the rise. Many dealers are optimistic and expect slow-to- moderate growth through the end of the year. Sales of Japanese cars, however, have declined because of rising prices and the perception of improved quality of domestic cars. Manufacturing District manufacturing firms are somewhat optimistic, but many are unwilling to make commitments regarding employment or investment plans until the outcomes of current Congressional deliberations are revealed. Reports are therefore mixed. The areas of strongest growth appear to be Arkansas and northeast Mississippi. For example, a New York-based shirt manufacturer will open its eighth factory in Arkansas, employing an additional 300 workers. A meat-processing company will also open a new plant in eastern Arkansas that will employ 200. A school furniture maker is expanding its production in central Arkansas, creating an additional 100 jobs. Northeast Mississippi has two new firms, a furniture producer and a maker of building materials, which will employ 300 workers in the area. Other District areas are not as upbeat. For example, a shoe manufacturer reversed its decision about the fate of a western Tennessee plant and will close it in late July, eliminating 265 jobs. In addition, a children's clothing manufacturer in Tennessee will close its plant in early July, eliminating 300 jobs. A St. Louis-based defense contractor laid off an additional 132 workers. Nonmanufacturing District nonmanufacturing firms have also expressed concerns about the pending deficit reduction and health care proposals. On top of these concerns, mines in southern Illinois and Indiana have closed as 3,100 union members went on strike. Positive reports were received, however, from some contacts. A trucking company in Memphis, for example, began operations at its new facility this month with more than 250 workers. Other contacts report increased use of just-in-time management of inventories, which has allowed for better inventory control and reduced costs. A recent survey indicates that 30 percent and 33 percent of the reporting firms in Memphis and Little Rock, respectively, will increase employment in the third quarter of this year. Some contacts in the construction industry report very high cement prices, but believe that such price increases are an aberration rather than a trend toward higher rates of inflation. Developers report that lease renewals no longer include the perks previously sought by lessees, although renegotiated rents can be up to 40 percent lower. Construction and Real Estate Wet weather continues to be a problem for many District homebuilders, as contacts indicate that issuance of single-family building permits has been delayed by the rain. Nevertheless, a number of areas report double-digit increases in March and April permits over the same period last year. Sales of new and existing homes are strong in most areas of the District, with St. Louis a notable exception. Many realtors have expressed concern about low inventories of homes for sale. In central Arkansas, prices received by home sellers are very close to the asking price, and in Louisville existing homes valued at less than $140,000 are selling within five to eight days. Banking and Finance Total loans on the books of a group of large St. Louis banks rose just 0.2 percent from early April through late May after a 1.1 percent increase during the prior two-month period. All of the slowdown in growth was the result of a decline in commercial lending. Real estate loans increased 0.7 percent after a 0.2 percent increase in February and March; consumer loans rose 1 .6 percent in the April-to-May period after a 0.7 percent decline in the prior two months. Agriculture and Natural Resources Cool temperatures and substantial rainfall have delayed planting and impeded crop emergence across the District. In many instances, planting took place under less-than-ideal conditions. Contacts in Missouri and southern Illinois have expressed concern over the planting delays and the slow development of the corn crop; as a result, some farmers have switched from corn to soybeans or sorghum. Record boll weevil infestations-a result of the mild winter and the wet spring-have been reported in most cotton-producing areas of the District. Although farmers have started to apply pesticide, some contacts believe that a substantial risk to the cotton crop is possible this year given the magnitude of the outbreak. Generally, the winter wheat crop is in good condition as the summer harvest approaches.