Overview Tenth District economic activity continues to improve modestly. Retail sales are moderate to strong, and auto sales for December were up due to tax law effects. Inventory levels are viewed as satisfactory to slightly high, and prices are expected to remain relatively stable. Housing activity has been helped by mild weather. The energy industry remains generally depressed. Deposits at district banks are stable to higher compared with a month earlier. Paydowns on farm loans are improved compared with a year ago. Retail Sales Retailers report moderate to strong increases in sales over year ago levels, with sales of women's apparel particularly strong. Prices have not changed little during the last three months and are expected to remain stable. All retailers report satisfactory inventory levels. Although some retailers are optimistic about 1987 sales, many express concern that first quarter sales might be soft. Automobile Sales December auto sales were up from previous months, mainly due to the 1987 elimination of the sales tax deduction. Favorable credit market conditions have also helped sales While inventory levels are generally acceptable, a few dealers report slightly high inventories. Dealers report a cautious optimism regarding future sales. Purchasing Agents Purchasing agents in the Tenth District report stable to slightly higher input prices. Most expect relatively stable prices over the next three months. Materials are readily available, and no problems with availability or lead times are expected. Most firms are reported to be trimming inventories and generally plan to continue this policy over the near term. Housing Activity and Finance Mild weather this winter has allowed housing starts to run at or ahead of last year's levels Multi-family housing construction has been strong in some areas, while strength in single-family construction has been more widespread. Homebuilders are optimistic for new home sales after some sluggishness in December sales. Builders report no problems with either the availability or delivery of housing materials, and materials prices are generally steady. Most savings institutions report light savings outflows over the last twelve months due to competition for these funds, but flows have leveled off in the last month. Most expect some savings inflows in the near future. Demand for mortgage funds varies from up slightly to down moderately. Mortgage interest rates have declined slightly, and respondents expect continued modest declines in the future. Energy The district's energy industry has recovered only slightly from the weakness caused by the dramatic decline in oil prices in 1986. Oil prices remain well below year ago levels, although a recent OPEC agreement to restrict output has caused prices to firm somewhat. Exploration and development activity in the district has rebounded only slightly and remains generally depressed. The average weekly number of operating drilling rigs in the Tenth District increased from 272 in November to 294 in December, about half the number recorded a year earlier. Agriculture Throughout much of the Tenth District, paydowns on agricultural loans are satisfactory, and generally improved over last year. However, due to late harvests and wet weather, some areas in the district report delayed paydowns on 1986 agricultural loans. Late harvests have also delayed spring credit decisions for some district banks. Even so, most bankers report that very few of their current borrowers will be denied credit this spring, due to previous action to eliminate problem credits from loan portfolios and to use of the loan guarantee program of the Farmers Home Administration. To limit additional build-up in commodity surpluses, 1987 farm programs will allow producers to idle up to 35 percent of their acreage. Across the district, bankers generally expect a high proportion of farmers, perhaps exceeding two-thirds, to participate in the set-aside program, although few farmers have committed to date. A mild winter, abundant winter wheat pasture, and low grain prices have encouraged many district cow-calf operators to hold more calves through the winter this year than last. Low grain prices and relatively strong hog prices have led to expectations of an expansion in hog production, but few signs of an expansion have emerged. Banking Total loan demand was mixed, and total deposit activity was generally constant or up, at Tenth District banks during the past month. The number of bankers reporting an increase in loan demand equaled the number of bankers reporting a decrease. The prime rate did not change at most banks, and changes in the near term are not generally expected. Consumer loan rates either fell or remained constant, and further changes in the near term are not generally expected. Demand deposits, NOW's, Super-NOW's, MMDA's, and passbook savings accounts tended to increase. IRA's, large CD's, and small time deposits generally remained constant.