Overview Manufacturing has resumed its rise after leveling off late last year from an upward trend that began in midsummer. Producers are even more optimistic than a few weeks ago about prospects for their businesses in the months ahead. Coal production has increased in recent weeks and further increases are expected as the year progresses. In retailing, sales were weak in early January, but inventories are at desired levels, prices are mostly unchanged, and revenues are expected to rise again soon. In the District economy as a whole, somewhat slower growth is expected in 1987. The region's farmers, however, should enjoy a significant increase in income. Consumer Spending Retail sales activity was weak in early January, according to our survey. Fifty-six percent of the respondents report seasonally adjusted declines in sales and employment. Retail inventories appear to he in line with expectations; retailers are optimistic that business will improve in the coming months and they are restocking accordingly. Seventy percent of responding retailers report no change in the prices of the goods they sell or in the cost of goods they buy. Among the remaining 30 percent, those reporting price increases outnumber those reporting declines. Manufacturing and Mining Our survey indicates an increase in the seasonally adjusted pace of manufacturing activity in early January as compared with December. Thirty-seven percent of the respondents report January-over-December increases in shipments and 24 percent report declines. In our previous survey, 29 percent reported November-over-October increases in shipments and 27 percent reported declines. Manufacturing employment appears to be up slightly in January; only six percent of the respondents report fewer employees, 77 percent indicate no change, and 17 percent report more workers on the job. Nondurable goods industries continue to show greater strength than durable goods industries, although furniture industry representatives report further increases in activity. The manufacturing outlook also appears to be improving. Among, respondents, 35 percent report increases in new orders and 25 percent report declines. In the previous survey, increases were reported by 25 percent, declines by 26 percent. Unfilled orders also appear to be rising. Looking ahead, manufacturers continue to anticipate increases in shipments and new orders. In our latest survey, about two-thirds indicate that they expect increases in these categories, compared with about half in the previous survey. Fifty-nine percent of the respondents believe general business conditions in the nation will be better six months from now; this percentage rose in January after declining in each of the three previous surveys. Manufacturers' inventories of finished goods were apparently rising in early January, a change of direction from the four previous surveys. Higher inventory levels in January as compared with December are reported by 30 percent of the respondents; 20 percent report lower levels. In the previous survey, 26 percent had reported higher levels, and 43 percent had reported lower levels. Manufacturers' inventories of materials, however, appear to have declined for the fifth consecutive survey. Regional coal production was slightly higher in mid-December then a year ago. Coal producers are cautiously optimistic about their sales in 1987 because they are less worried about the impact of possible acid rain legislation on demand, they expect buyers to stockpile coal this year because of the threat of a strike early in 1988, and they expect to compete better with foreign coal suppliers. Increased coal production will probably not result in more jobs for coal miners, however, because of advanced mining technology. Agriculture A survey of agricultural specialists indicates farmers in this region should face brighter income prospects in 1987. Crop producers will probably be selling their harvests at low prices, but their production should be up substantially over the drought-reduced levels of 1986. Livestock producers will likely benefit from the low grain prices. Poultry production, a large part of the region's livestock sector, stands to benefit the most because the costs of producing poultry are especially sensitive to grain prices. District Outlook and State and Local Government Purchases A combination of forecasts from economists who project activity in their home states yields a forecast for moderate growth in 1987 in the District as a whole. Regional forecasters are about evenly split between those who expect their state and local governments to increase real purchases significantly and those who expect little change in economic stimulus from their state and local governments.