Activity has been sluggish in the Seventh District, but construction and retail sales have been surprisingly vigorous. Growth of total employment in the District continues to be less than in the U.S.; however, manufacturing employment rose recently, after an extended decline. Other steel makers continue to benefit from the 5 1/2-month strike at USX. Auto output has been cut back modestly, from high levels. Most lines of mechanical capital goods remain weak, reflecting limited demand from both domestic buyers and overseas, including less developed countries that had been good customers. Construction in major markets in the District continues vigorous. An expected slowing in offices and apartments is not yet evident. Consumer spending improved in November and December, through a broad range of products. Employment Total payroll employment rose less last year in the District's five- state region, taken as a whole, than in the nation. However, Indiana outpaced the U.S., reflecting strength in construction and various services. In contrast, employment in Iowa declined. Total employment in the five-state region finally has drawn even with peaks reached in 1978-79. Employment estimates for Indiana and Wisconsin are 2 percent above previous peaks, but Illinois, Iowa, and Michigan are still below that level. Manufacturing employment turned up in the fourth quarter in the District states, along with the nation, after trending lower for about two years. However, various employers continue to announce plant closings and new reductions in staff. Steel Developments in steel have been dominated by the protracted USX work stoppage begun last August 1. Other mills at the foot of Lake Michigan are running at or near capacity for steel sheet, chiefly for autos. A drop in industry shipments in November is thought by industry analysts to reflect depletion of USX's inventories built up before the strike. Unemployment benefits for eligible steel strikers are nearly exhausted. Because start-up to full operation will take 6-8 weeks for its major mills, USX must return to work soon if it is to get its share of the seasonally strong second quarter market. Local press reports hint at progress toward settlement. Steel imports continue above the Administration's market-share targets. A larger share of imports is coming from countries whose currencies have not declined versus the dollar. Motor Vehicles The surge in car and light truck sales at year-end, driven by tax law changes, reversed a two-month inventory buildup. GM extended holiday shutdowns at two District plants, and at several other plants, most for two extra weeks, to control stocks. Industry analysts expect car sales to fall in 1987, with domestic models accounting for most of the drop. Another Japanese motor vehicle assembly plant will be built for Fuji-Isuzu near Lafayette, Indiana. Demand for larger trucks has improved, reflecting a rise in truck freight tonnage over the past year and increased replacement demand. Inventories of used trucks are down. The production rate for heavy trucks has risen above 8 percent from 1986 lows. Trucking industry adjustments in response to deregulation appear to be largely over. Like autos, purchases of mobile homes and boats were boosted in late 1986 by tax considerations. Equipment Demand for most capital equipment remains soft. Cutbacks in auto industry capital spending have adversely affected producers of industrial robots, machine tools, and other capital goods. Heavy construction equipment also continues weak. The top maker of earth- moving equipment plans to close 3 more plants, including one in Iowa. Demand by less developed countries for construction equipment remains low. Two leading producers of mobile hydraulic construction cranes are said to view these lines as "discontinued businesses". Most of Deere's plants have been shut by a labor dispute since August 1986. Despite the strike, stocks of farm equipment remain ample because demand is extremely weak. However, stocks of light construction equipment have become tight. Orders for railroad equipment are virtually at rock bottom. The leading locomotive producer halted output of new units indefinitely last November at its Chicago-area plant. Demand for petroleum industry equipment is very low, despite an upturn in drilling activity in the latter part of 1986. In this and other lines, demand for new equipment is held down by a market overhang of good used equipment. Demand for some types of specialized equipment, including food machinery and airline equipment, is reported slightly stronger. A steel company and a large aluminum fabricator in the District plan substantial upgradings of their facilities. Expansion plans are likely to be raised in the chemical and paper industries because of pressures on capacity. Nonresidential Construction Contracts for nonresidential building in District states in 1986, through 11 months, were slightly ahead of last year, with Michigan up substantially, and the other states somewhat lower. Construction activity and bidding on commercial projects continue strong in the Chicago area. Sales of commercial and industrial buildings surged at year-end to beat the new tax law. Commercial construction activity in this area is expected to fall 10 percent or more in 1987, but shows no clear evidence yet of doing so. Some proposed office buildings have been postponed awaiting anchor tenants. However, others are being pushed ahead, including several of over 1 million square feet. Activity in December and January was boosted by mild weather. Repaving and other highway work will be abnormally low until federal funding is restored. Residential Construction Homes and apartment construction was up strongly in 1986 in many District centers. Conditions varied widely, however. Areas dominated by agriculture and heavy industry remain depressed. Shortages of skilled tradespeople, particularly carpenters, in the Chicago, Indianapolis, and Detroit areas have put upward pressures on builders' costs. Some analysts expect housing starts in the Chicago area to fall in 1987 due to fewer multifamily starts. A survey of landlords indicates that apartment rents in this area will rise only 3.8 percent, on average, in 1987, much less than would be needed to cover the adverse effects of tax reform on cash flow from new apartments. Markets for condominiums have improved, as the excess of "investment condos" has been worked down. Home resales were up strongly in the Chicago area in 1986, and this up-trend continued into January 1987. Used home prices in the area rose an estimated 14 percent on average in 1986. Detroit and Milwaukee resales also rose strongly in 1986, with further growth expected in 1987. Interest rates on fixed-rate home mortgages are predominantly in the 9 to 9.25 percent range, but lenders increasingly are cutting rates below 9 percent. Particularly attractive fixed rates, e.g. 8.5 percent, attract lengthy waiting lists of would-be applicants. Initial rates on adjustable rates loans vary widely, with some below 7 percent. Consumer Spending District reports on department and chain store sales indicate improvement in November and December. Sales of most types of general merchandise were described as good, especially apparel, toys, and home furnishings. An Iowa producer of major home appliances is adding workers to meet strong demand. Mild weather has restrained sales of weather-related consumer products. Inventories are generally in good shape, but somewhat low for fast-moving items. Credit use continued heavy through the Christmas sale period. Price increases on imported items due to the lower dollar and trade restraint, have not yet appeared at retail in most cases, but will be increasingly evident in 1987.