Economic growth in the Southeast continues at a moderate pace. Service employment gains are strong. but manufacturing job gains are weak. Holiday spending was checkered because oil patch weakness somewhat offset gains in areas benefiting from strong population and income growth. Home building's momentum may be slowing, and weakness in office building is causing overall commercial construction to shrink. Tourism continues to boost the regional economy. In agriculture, bountiful crops depressed vegetable prices and grower profits but raised revenues for citrus producers. Employment and Industry District labor force growth outpaced employment growth in November, and the region's unemployment rate edged upward to 8.1 percent. The unemployment rate has hovered near 8 percent since April. Job gains in services maintained the momentum of previous months as business and health services posted especially strong employment gains over the past year. Employment in the real estate sector also has continued to expand. Manufacturing activity has registered little overall change for most sectors since September. Although textile and apparel imports were at record levels in 1986, mergers, consolidations, and the closing of inefficient mills have resulted in a more productive and competitive domestic textile industry. Mills are running at 92 percent of capacity, up 9 percent from last year, and textile employment has turned up. Labor-intensive apparel producers are bearing the brunt of import competition; apparel employment is down by 7,900 workers just in the last year. Appliance producers report record levels of shipments due to the strong housing market. Printing and publishing companies have been adding to job rolls as savings and loans, brokerage houses, and banks offer new financial services that require checks and documentation. The transportation equipment sector continues to add jobs on the strength of auto sales and aircraft parts production. Weakness in energy drilling activity continues to batter Louisiana; employment in oil and gas extraction fell by about 22,600 workers last year. Consumer Spending Holiday consumer spending was sluggish in Louisiana and Mississippi, while retailers elsewhere in the region posted moderate sales gains that generally met expectations. Because of limited markdowns, most retailers expect their 1986 profit performance to be somewhat better than in 1985. Merchants reportedly were very satisfied with inventory levels at the end of their fiscal year and were generally optimistic about the outlook for 1987 despite fears that some buyers may be overextended. District car sales rebounded sharply in December from the sluggish pace of October and November, largely in response to the well- advertised sales tax deduction advantage of purchasing a new vehicle before January 1987. Ford Motor Company's sales in the Southeast soared 45 percent in December, matching the company's strong car sales growth nationally. For all of 1986, Ford sales in the Southeast and the nation were off 3.3 and 0.2 percent from 1985 levels. Because fewer incentives are available to maintain consumer interest, the 1987 car sales outlook is uncertain. Construction November marked the second successive monthly decline in single- family building permits, perhaps foreshadowing a construction slowdown in the region. However, single-family houses in the medium price range of $80,000-$120,000 still are selling very well, and rising land costs, coupled with improved home affordability, have prompted some builders of lower-priced homes to move into the medium-priced housing market. Although overall commercial construction is slowing, retail construction has continued at a healthy pace, spurred by continuing population in-migration. Occupancy rates are high at new shopping centers in Birmingham and Atlanta, and few lease rate concessions are being given. In Tampa, a slowdown in retail construction has helped boost occupancy rates and effective lease rates, while new store openings have caused a glut in New Orleans. Industrial construction over the past year has been strongest region-wide in the high-tech office and warehouse space segment. Financial Services Loan growth at large regional commercial banks continued to edge downward in November as consumer lending experienced its largest drop-off since July. Increased competition from non-bank institutions and slow economic growth have contributed to the consumer lending performance. Real estate lending has remained firm. The market for home equity loans continues to surge at about the same fast pace reported for the nation. December automobile loans undoubtedly grew sharply with the year-end acceleration of car sales. Tourism Travel to the Southeast, particularly by auto, remained strong in November; hotel/motel tax receipts for most of the southeastern states posted double-digit year-over-year increases. Hotels in parts of Florida experienced occupancy rates near capacity during the holiday season. Moreover, advance room bookings in Florida are up 4 to 5 percent from last year. To date, the fifteenth anniversary celebration at Disney World has been a huge success and is expected to continue to boost attendance through next October. Convention business also is posting favorable gains throughout the Southeast. Agriculture and Mining Regional coal production fell 15 percent in 1986 from 1985's depressed level; Alabama's production decline was much greater than Tennessee's. Strong competition from cheaper oil and natural gas led to lower coal prices, reduced production, and losses for mining operations. Oil price stability stimulated well drilling in the District even before the current price rise. The number of oil rigs operating at year's end was the highest since last May and 23 percent more than last summer. Extremely favorable weather in late 1986 over much of Florida's vegetable producing area has resulted in a bountiful winter harvest, especially of tomatoes. Unfortunately, vegetable prices reportedly are below production cost for many growers. Florida's citrus farmers are faring better with a larger crop than last season because prices are holding up better.