Summary Despite an upturn by the manufacturing sector, the expansion of District employment has been sluggish in recent months and has trailed the national average. Construction, however, has grown more rapidly in the District than in the nation, led primarily by the residential sector. Preliminary reports suggest that District holiday sales were up moderately from the previous year's level. Fourth quarter lending activity at District banks was characterized by continued strong growth in commercial and real estate loans. Agricultural loan volumes and loan quality continue to decrease. Employment For the third consecutive month, the District's seasonally-adjusted unemployment rate was 7.7 percent in November. District non-farm employment grew at a 2.2 percent annual rate during the three months ending November, trailing the nation's 3.0 percent rate. Employment in Tennessee grew quickly during the period (4.8 percent rate) while little change occurred in Kentucky or Missouri. The number of construction jobs in the District expanded at a rapid 7.2 percent rate for the three-month period. District manufacturing employment grew at a 1.0 percent rate for the three months ending November, but was still 0.5 percent below year-ago levels. Gains in the textile/apparel and electrical equipment sectors contributed to the recent turnaround. Employment in the District transportation sector has trended downward since early 1986 with gains in aircraft manufacturing offset by losses in motor vehicle production. Construction For the three months ending November, the value of District residential construction contracts grew by 12.6 percent, exceeding the nation's 1.9 percent growth. Residential contracts during the period were 8.9 percent above the level of the same period last year, slightly higher than the increase nationally. District nonresidential construction contracts grew by 6.5 percent in the September-November period, nearly matching the nation's 6.3 percent expansion. Compared with year-ago levels, however, District contracts for the period were 11.2 percent higher in contrast to a 5.7 percent decline nationally. Missouri was responsible for much of the District's construction growth with the value of residential and nonresidential contracts issued in the three-month period up 27.3 and 34.1 percent, respectively, from year-ago levels. Consumer Spending District retail sales followed national trends in October by falling sharply due to a drop in auto sales. Holiday sales generally met retailers' expectations of a moderate 4-6 percent rise over year-ago levels. Most retailers indicated that inventories were close to desired levels. Reports indicate that holiday sales were soft in the Little Rock area despite widespread unscheduled markdowns the week before Christmas. Banking Total loans outstanding at large weekly-reporting District banks grew at a 14.2 percent annual rate for the three months ending December. Fourth quarter loan activity saw a continued acceleration in commercial and real estate lending. Commercial loans expanded at a 15.8 percent rate for the three months compared with a 3.4 percent rate for the same period last year. The St. Louis and Memphis markets have experienced strong growth in the commercial area as a result of increased purchases of loan participations rather than as a result of strong loan demand. Real estate loans grew at a 26.5 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter versus a 5.3 percent rate for the same period in 1985. Consumer lending gained momentum during the period, growing at a 26.3 percent annual rate, a rate comparable to that of the same period last year. Agriculture The volume of agricultural loans at District banks has followed a two-year downward trend. The volume of farm loans outstanding for the third quarter was 9.6 percent lower than one year earlier and 13.4 percent lower than two years earlier. Nationally, farm loans fell by 13.8 percent from year-ago levels. The largest decrease in the District was in Missouri where farm loans fell by 15.5 percent from the previous year. The lower levels of farm debt can be attributed to lower costs of many petroleum-based inputs such as fuel and fertilizer, lower land prices and increased scrutiny of farm loans on the part of lenders. While banks' farm loan volumes are falling, their share of farm loans is increasing because of the Farm Credit System's higher interest rates. The quality of farm loans, as measured by non-performing farm loans, has continued to deteriorate both in the nation and the District. Loan losses at District agricultural banks, however, have stabilized while they continue to increase at the national level.