The upward momentum of the economic expansion in the Eighth District continued in December and early January. The Christmas season surpassed retailers' optimistic expectations despite severe cold weather in the last two weeks, and after-Christmas sales have been satisfactory. Manufacturing has been improving almost across the board, most transportation companies are moving more goods, and employment has risen markedly since early fall. Real estate sales and construction activity have remained strong despite a seasonal slowing. Outlook Employers in the St. Louis and Memphis areas, according to recent surveys, anticipate slower growth in total employment over the next three months. Less than 20 percent of the employers polled plan to hire additional workers in that period, a similar proportion expect some staff reductions, while over 60 percent plan virtually no net changes. Three months earlier, 27 percent of the St. Louis employers planned staff additions and only 7 percent expected reductions. Consumer Spending District retailers use words like "tremendous" and "fantastic" to describe their Christmas sales. One large chain reported December sales 38 percent above the previous December, and most stores reported gains in double digits. Most merchandise sold well, but the willingness of shoppers to invest in "big ticket" and high-quality items was particularly impressive. There yam no need for panic price markdowns to move merchandise as in the previous year, and hence retail profits jumped more than sales. After-Christmas sales were generally described as satisfactory, but year-over-year comparisons were lower than in December. Manufacturing and Employment Manufacturing activity continued to expand in the District during December and early January. Orders are up, backlogs are increasing, and some firms are implementing capital spending plans. Most capital spending continues to be directed toward productivity improvements, but some is for capacity expansion. With greater production, employment has continued to rise. An automobile company increased its employment by 1,500 in early January, both to staff an additional shift and to reduce overtime payments. However, unemployment rates have shown only a slight decline in recent months as the labor force has also continued to expand. Real Estate and Construction Real estate sales and construction (adjusted for seasonal influences) have remained at high levels since November. One builder sold 15 relatively high-priced homes in the first week of January, which was beyond his expectations. Six other homebuilders reported heavy shopper traffic through display homes, and a major realtor said sales of older homes were strong for December and the first half of January. Transportation Several truck lines in the District reported improved business in December and early January; for one line, December was the best month in four years. Two railroads reported business up nearly 25 percent in December from the same month a year earlier, with gains in most general business lines. Barge traffic at the Memphis port has been gradually increasing. On the other hand, one company owning 150 barges recently filed for bankruptcy. Barge traffic in the St. Louis area was adversely affected in late December and early January by the unexpected quick freezing of the Mississippi River further north, locking in many barges. Agriculture A large number of acres were planted in winter wheat despite the PIK program, and the crop appears to be surviving the cold weather. Early indications are that plantings of corn and soybeans this spring are likely to match those of the large 1982 plantings. As a result, sales of seed, fertilizer and herbicides are improving. Finance Commercial and industrial loans at large District banks declined on a seasonally adjusted basis during December and early January. Savings and loan associations have been making few loans to businesses, even though they have had authority to do so for more than a year. Two St. Louis area associations, however, have recently added additional lending officers and are aggressively seeking business loans. Most District associations have less than 1 percent of their assets in commercial loans, and even the aggressive associations are nowhere near the Federal limit of 10 percent in 1984. Nonetheless, these percentages have been rising and are expected to continue to rise as associations gain experience. In general, the financial health of the savings and loan associations in the District has continued to improve. Several Louisville and St. Louis savings and loan associations, however, reported an increase in delinquencies on mortgage loans in December.