Summary Economic activity in the District continues to improve. The employment situation is mixed, as firms have been reluctant to recall workers, and are stressing overtime and productivity increases. Retail sales were strong in the holiday and post-holiday seasons. Manufacturing activity continues its strong growth from recently depressed levels. Production of flat-rolled steel for consumer goods is strong but demand for other steel products remains weak. Capital goods production is strengthening from a low base but imports are hindering recovery for some products. Demand for automobiles is growing and some parts suppliers have reached capacity limits. Firms are cautious about increasing capacity; capital spending is emphasized for modernization rather than expansion. House construction may have topped out. Loan demand, especially for commercial and industrial loans, is strengthening. District Labor Market Conditions Labor market conditions in this District show mixed trends, and the unemployment rate remains well above the national average. In Ohio, the numbers of employed and unemployed workers both declined (s.a.) in December. The unemployment rate has fallen to 10.42 percent from 11.5 percent in September (s.a.) but remains 2.2 percentage points above the national rate. Unemployment (n.s.a.) rates in eleven major SMSAs in the District in November ranged from 8.5 percent in Columbus, Ohio to 14.1 percent in Youngstown. Production workers in Ohio manufacturing firms achieved record average weekly earnings in November as overtime work continued to increase. Hourly earnings increased slightly but the average workweek increased by one-half hour to 42.5 hours. Retail Sales Fourth District retailers report an active holiday season, and express optimism over the first quarter sales prospects. Some report sales were unusually strong in the first two weeks after Christmas. General merchandise sales are roughly 10 to 14 percent above year- ago levels, according to three major retail chains the district. Sales gains were achieved in almost all merchandise categories, especially apparel and household furnishings. Fourth District sales of both domestic and import cars were also brisk during the holiday period. Import dealers are not currently experiencing shortages, but most expect shortages to develop again by early February. Domestic new-car dealers indicate that inventory positions are near desired levels. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity continues its upward trend in this District. A survey of Cleveland area purchasing managers for December indicates production was higher than in the preceding month for a larger percentage of respondents than any time since April 1977, and new orders were higher for a greater percentage of respondents than any time in over ten years. Respondents report rush orders and split shipments are becoming more common. Finished goods inventories are rising slowly. Employment is unchanged, suggesting that firms are using overtime to expand production. A survey of purchasing managers in the Cincinnati area indicates production, new orders, and backlogs are growing, although less rapidly in December than in October. Strong price pressures are reported for commodities. Delivery time is increasing and split shipments are becoming more common. Finished goods inventories are rising. This bank's survey of Fourth District manufacturers indicates that firms expect moderate growth of shipments, new orders, and inventories in January. Employment is expected to hold steady while average weekly hours worked is expected to increase. Steel Production of flat-rolled steel used in consumer goods is near capacity but demand for oil-country goods and construction steel remains weak. A major steel producer reports gradual improvement in demand from the capital goods sector. Another firm reports December shipments strengthened as buyers anticipated early 1984 steel price increases. Industry production is currently about 70 percent of capacity, adjusted for plant closings. One firm estimates the new breakeven point, given present prices, is 68 percent to 70 percent of capacity, and suggests that all producers can expect to make a profit in 1984. Capital Goods Orders for heavy duty trucks have been strong since August because of the need to replace the existing fleet of trucks. The recent surge in demand has caused supplies of some truck components to be tight. A supplier reports being at full capacity in truck-related production, partly because his capacity was reduced in 1982 and 1983. Demand for parts for construction machinery is beginning to improve but parts demand for aircraft and agricultural equipment remains weak. A machine tool producer reports orders have doubled from six months ago but nevertheless are still at a low level. Orders are unlikely to reach their previous peak because foreign producers now have 40 percent of the domestic market. Nevertheless, production of machinery to produce some electronic equipment is at capacity, and a producer expects large productivity gains from electronic equipment to dwarf interest costs as a consideration by purchasers in 1984. Automobiles Sales of new cars rose substantially in 1983:IVQ, following a supply-constrained third quarter. Orders are continuing their gradual strengthening, but dealers are keeping inventories tight. A major producer reports some suppliers are at capacity, sometimes hindering automobile production. A need for additional capacity by parts suppliers is reported because many suppliers went bankrupt during the last recession. Nevertheless, suppliers are reluctant to expand capacity because of uncertainty about the duration of the current expansion. Construction Orders for new houses are down, and are unlikely to match last year. Builders of single-family homes report that new orders in the fourth quarter were down by 10 percent to 12 percent from a year earlier. The outlook for housing construction in 1984, according to a major Fourth District builder, is fairly good, but won't match 1983's performance because pent-up demand is not as strong as in early 1983, and interest rates are not expected to fall to the 12 1/2 percent levels reached in early 1983. Commercial Banking Loan demand appears to have strengthened at Fourth District banks in recent weeks. An increase in loan volume is evident for virtually all loan categories and especially for commercial and industrial loans and loans to financial institutions. Demand, saving and time deposit growth were not exceptionally strong. District banks apparently funded loan demand by running down their holdings of liquid assets and by issuing large denomination certificates of deposit. In particular, bank holdings of short-term Treasuries and federal fund sales both declined.