Overview Economic activity in the Tenth District continues to show moderate improvement following a strong Christmas sale season. New car sales have increased somewhat in early January. Both retail inventories and materials inventories are being closely controlled. Lead times for materials inputs are beginning to increase. Housing sales slowed late in 1983, and the demand for mortgage funds at savings and loan associations is weak. Commercial and industrial loan demand has been increasing at commercial banks, and deposit growth is strong. Tenth District agriculture has apparently not suffered greatly from the severe winter weather. Retail Trade Most retailers report current dollar sales in 1983 from 13 to 20 percent higher than in 1982. Christmas sales were unexpectedly higher than in previous years for most retailers, although some stores were hurt by December's bad weather. Sales are expected to continue their growth in 1984. More than half of the respondents began clearance sales earlier than in the past in order to reduce inventories and retain competitive. Prices have been stable and are expected to remain so in early 1984. Automobile Sales Most auto dealers surveyed report significant sales increases in the first weeks of January compared to December's somewhat disappointing performance, which some attribute to harsh weather. No problems in obtaining financing for floor planning were reported. Loans are available for potential buyers although some dealers have suffered from reductions in low-cost captive financing. Inventories range from constant to slightly expanded. All dealers surveyed were optimistic about sales in 1984. Purchasing Agents Most purchasing agents contacted report steady to slightly increasing input prices through 1983. Agents are expecting increases in major input prices in the range of 3 to 9 percent in 1984. Although few difficulties are being experienced in getting materials, lead times have increased and are expected to increase further. All respondents report inventory levels to be relatively lean but satisfactory. Stocks are expected to remain at or slightly above their current levels during 1984. Housing Activity and Finance Home builders report that housing starts in 1983 were way ahead of the previous year, while sales of new houses were moderately higher. A slight slowdown in sales was experienced in the last few weeks of 1983. Prices of new houses increased 3 to 5 percent in 1983. Virtually all home builders surveyed report fairly tight inventories of unsold houses. Savings inflows at savings and loan associations are slightly higher than a year ago, but virtually all respondents report a weak demand for mortgage funds. Nearly all institutions surveyed indicate that. mortgage interest rates are holding steady and will continue to do so for the next few months. Banking Loan demand at Tenth District banks increased in December, with the strongest growth in commercial and industrial loans. No declines were reported in consumer, agricultural, or commercial real estate loans, but a couple of institutions experienced declines in residential real estate loans. Total deposits were up in almost all surveyed banks. Virtually all categories of deposits increased or remained the same, with demand deposit growth the strongest. The prime rate ranged between 11 and 13.5 percent, with over 80 percent of the banks charging 11 to 11.75 percent. None of the respondents changed their prime rate last month and over 70 percent do not expect a change to occur this month. Consumer lending rates were also unchanged, and no change is expected this month. Agriculture Severe winter weather conditions in the Tenth District brought minimal livestock death losses, but there has been an absence of weight gains by feeder cattle in recent weeks. Although District bankers expect the extreme cold to have little impact on marketing of cattle, they are concerned about depleted stocks of hay in the event of more severe weather. The winter wheat crop in the Tenth District is in good condition with adequate snow cover apparently protecting the wheat from freeze damage. Wind erosion, normally a problem in parts of the District at this time of year, is virtually nonexistent despite adverse weather conditions. Anticipated end-of-year loan paydowns by farmers did not materialize, with little if any improvement expected in the near future. Bankers report some refinancing of troubled loans while a few large farm bankruptcies have occurred across the District. There has been some increase in Farmers Home Administration emergency loan applications by banks' farm customers, but processing delays prevent the assistance from being readily available. Many farmers appear to be carrying large stocks of corn in anticipation of price improvement. Sales of farm machinery and equipment across the District have been flat with no yearend upturn. Equipment manufacturers are not optimistic about increased sales of farm machinery and equipment in 1984.