Overview Fifth District business and economic activity is continuing to expand across a broad front judging from available evidence. In the manufacturing sector shipments, new orders, and order backlogs all made further gains in the latest month as did employment and the length of the average work week. Inventories were down sharply. Among retailers, department stores and other general merchandise dealers still contend that the holiday season provided a spectacular conclusion to a very good year. Most have reported double digit gains, December to December, with little of those gains absorbed by price increases. Housing and construction, also, are holding the gains of spring and summer. The residential sector is seeing more speculative building of late in anticipation of a spring resurgence of sales. Financial institutions have recently experienced moderate growth in loan demand, largely on the consumer side. With little deposit growth, however, liquidity is down from the unusually high levels reached in the fall. Manufacturing The recent advance in manufacturing activity apparently continued through the latest month. Shipments, new orders, and order backlogs all showed further increases from the previous month. The rate of increase in new orders seems to have fallen off somewhat, but seasonal factors in a few industries are largely responsible. Across the sector employment was up moderately and the average work week increased slightly. Nonetheless, there was a significant inventory runoff, particularly of finished goods, but materials were also down. Most District manufacturers are comfortable with current inventory levels. For the most part these developments have occurred consistently across industries, and there are few notable exceptions. Particular strength has recently appeared in primary metals and machinery and equipment, however, and seasonal weakness is most apparent among furniture manufacturers. Consumer Spending Reports from District retailers continue to suggest very strong activity through the end of the year. Many department stores around the District have reported sales gains of 12 percent to 26 percent, December 1983 over December 1982. A nationwide chain specializing in home appliances and consumer electronics and entertainment equipment reported a year over year gain of 43 percent for the month. One major exception to this pattern is a large catalog showroom retailer, which showed a year over year gain of less than 2 percent. In addition, there are indications that at least some dealers were able to trim promotional activities at year end while holding sales levels and preserving margins. Despite some concern just prior to the holiday selling season, there are few indications that stock outages or inventory shortages presented any generalized problems. With the exceptions of a few lines and an occasional sale item, dealers were apparently able to meet customer demands. Automobile sales are also reported to have held up surprisingly well over the month. Some import dealers continue to encounter supply problems, selling, as they say, everything they can get their hands on. Otherwise, activity is characterized as robust, but stable, despite a continuing shortage of low mileage used cars. Housing and Construction The construction sector also remains quite lively. The commercial and industrial side continues to make steady month by month gains, and the level of activity is now significantly improved from earlier in the year. The principal strength in the industry, however, is still originating in the residential sector. By nearly all accounts sales of residential property continue apace, and builders are trying to get ahead in anticipation of spring sales. For the first time in a good while there is talk of speculative building going on. Clearly, industry expectations are for another good year in the District's housing sector. Banking and Finance Loan demand at District financial institutions is still growing moderately, and growth remains largely on the consumer side. Nonetheless, as deposit growth has slowed and loan demand has picked up, however moderately, institutions have moved to restore credit quality and have become somewhat less liquid. Most institutions seem to be comfortable with current credit quality and loan to deposit ratios. The Outlook Business people in the District remain, on balance, strongly optimistic. Retailers seem to think they can hold the gains of 1983 and have another very good year. Manufacturers are looking for further improvement and most expect progress over at least the next six months. The emergence of speculative house building attests to the positive outlook in that sector. One of the few negative notes comes from the textile industry where there is still much concern over import competition.