Introduction The improvement in the Second District's economy is continuing at a moderate pace. The Christmas season was a strong one for area retailers, with sale. gains over the lackluster year-earlier period in the 10 to 20 percent range. Manufacturing activity continues to expand, led by strength in the automotive sector. Purchasing managers note a pickup in orders and an increased willingness to accumulate inventories. The nonresidential real estate market remains strong with a quickening pace of leasing activity and the announcement of new building projects. Residential construction is at a seasonal low but the outlook for the spring is favorable. On the financial side, banks report a modest increase in business borrowing and strong demand for consumer credit. Consumer Spending Second District retailers reported brisk sales during the Christmas season, with over-the-year increases in December generally in the 10 to 20 percent range. Business exceeded expectations at most stores and only one upstate New York chain recorded a December-to-December gain of less than 10 percent. Spending was generally heavy from the Thanksgiving weekend to Christmas, and a wide range of products was reported in demand. This contrasted with 1982 when sales were weak until late in the season and stores engaged in heavy promotional activity prior to Christmas. Sales continued strong in the final week of 1983 but in early January reports were more mixed, with growth over 1983 ranging from flat to 20 percent. Some stores report low levels of inventories and a desire to rep1enish stocks. Others plan to increase inventories only in line with sales. Most retailers expect demand to remain strong compared to the levels of a year ago, but with much smaller over-the-year gains than in December. Business Activity Business activity in the Second District continued expanding at a moderate pace in recent weeks. While the automotive industry remains the major source of strength throughout much of the District, other manufacturing industries reporting improvement were electrical and nonelectrical machinery, fabricated metals, chemicals, and food products. New orders are continuing to improve, and purchasing managers in some upstate areas noted an increased willingness to accumulate inventories. Several companies have recently announced plans to open new facilities in the District. These include a large printing plant in Saratoga Springs, a computer operations center on Long Island, end a factory for producing computer components in the Poughkeepsie area. In addition, a number of companies will soon begin expansion and renovation of their existing operations. The largest of these projects is a $67 million, 2-year modernization and expansion of a paper mill in upstate New York. In most cases these new installations and expansions are expected to generate increased employment. Unemployment has declined in the Second District in line with the national trend. The December unemployment rate in New York State was 7.4 percent, an over-the-year improvement of l.7 percentage points, while New Jersey's 6.8 percent rate was 2.4 percentage points below its December 1982 level. Construction and Real Estate Residential construction activity is at a seasonal low now that cold weather has moved into the District. Traffic. and sales have also slowed and are not expected to pick up before the end of January. Over the next few months though, the outlook remains bright. Homebuilders are fully booked through the spring. Nonetheless, many question the sustainability of last year's construction pace. They believe that most of the pent-up demand has already been satisfied and that lower mortgage rates and stable housing prices will be needed to generate much additional interest from potential homebuyers. Builders seem skeptical that prices will stabilize in the near-term because of ongoing labor and materials shortages. And the likelihood of continuing large Federal deficits makes them doubt that mortgage rates will decline much. The nonresidential real estate market continues to exhibit signs of strength. Leasing of office space has progressed at a brisk pace and generally without significant rent reductions or other landlord concessions. Although nonresidential starts have been scarce, several new plans for future projects have recently been announced. Some of these represent expansions into what are generally considered secondary locations such as the West Side and the area north of the World Trade Center in Manhattan, and north of the Route 287 corridor in Westchester County. Financial Developments Banks in the Second District have reported a modest increase in business borrowing during the last month. Inventories, receivables, machine tool purchases, construction, and capital expansion were cited as uses for the increased loans, although no one purpose was singled out as being particularly significant. One respondent noted an expansion of loan demand at middle-size corporations but no increase for the largest corporations. Consumer borrowing remained strong in recent weeks. In particular, auto loan demand was cited as being robust. Some banks reported that strong consumer credit demand has continued into early January instead of the usual after-Christmas slowing.