In the Twelfth District the expansion is continuing at a rapid pace. Consumer spending during the Christmas and post-holiday season has been exceptionally strong, both at retail stores and automobile dealerships. Western homebuilding activity in November regained 1983's August peak and nonresidential construction spending has been rising as well. In the manufacturing sector, employment gains have been widespread and especially strong in such defense and capital goods industries as electronic equipment and missiles and space vehicles. Agricultural prospects are improving. Adjustable rate mortgages are gaining increased borrower acceptance and helping to sustain housing. Consumer loans are growing rapidly due to consumers' increased creditworthiness and optimism. Consumer Spending Consumer spending was extremely strong throughout the district during the Christmas holiday season, and buying apparently has remained strong in the post- holiday period, after allowance for the normal seasonal slowdown. The strength has been apparent both at retail stores and automobile dealerships. Major department stores in Southern California, for example, experienced an average 16 percent gain in sales in December over a year earlier. In Arizona, sales were up by a similar percentage. Even in Oregon, where the overall economic recovery has been lagging and weather was particularly severe, major retailers experienced year-to-year sales gains in December ranging from 12 to 18 percent. Stores have been discounting merchandise heavily and thus have been moving a large volume to attain these sales increases. In fact, due to their depleted inventories and optimism with regard to future sales, retailers are revising their inventory plans upward for the first half of 1984, although their attitude with regard to inventory building still has to be described as cautious. To finance their heavy expenditures consumers have been sharply increasing their installment debt. Nevertheless, financial institutions consider consumers' increased willingness to borrow as a positive factor affecting spending, since consumers do not appear to be overextended and delinquency rates actually are declining. Manufacturing and Mining Manufacturing employment has been rising rapidly throughout most of the district states, except in Oregon where the lumber industry has been cutting payrolls since August. Gains have been especially strong in the electronic equipment industry, which has been experiencing rising defense, consumer and business demand, and in the missiles and space vehicle category. California has been the location for most of this increased high-technology employment, but Arizona and Utah also have been experiencing rapid gains. The West's other capital goods industries, including those that manufacture non-electrical machinery, trucks and aircraft, also are experiencing a pickup in orders. In Washington, orders for commercial transport planes have risen so sharply since mid 1983 that aircraft employment is expected to stabilize or perhaps rise moderately in 1984 after falling by about 9,000 during each of the two preceding years. With the notable exception of the Pacific Northwest aluminum industry, employment in the West's energy and metal mining and processing industries has stabilized but not yet begun to rise significantly. The copper, coal and oil industries continue to suffer from weak prices and excess worldwide supplies. Overall, respondents report that manufacturers intend to add workers to their payrolls very cautiously in 1984 so as to realize continued rapid productivity growth and hold down the increase in unit labor costs. Construction and Real Estate Homebuilding activity has rebounded more strongly in the West than it has nationally. For example, Western housing starts in November regained the 1983-peak reached in August. Permits issued for new dwelling units in the region also rose more than nationally, suggesting that Western homebuilding activity in coming months will remain relatively strong. Sales also are reported to be holding up well, although housing prices are rising. Respondents attribute this strong housing market to buyers' increased acceptance of the newer adjustable rate mortgage packages which offer initial rates substantially below those of the current fixed-rate mortgages. Nonresidential construction spending also is picking up. The upsurge in retail sales is encouraging modernization and construction of retail stores. The high-tech firms, especially electronic manufacturers, are building new plants. The decline in office vacancy rates, and the availability of pension fund and insurance company financing, are encouraging developers to plan and start construction of new office buildings. Agriculture The agricultural sector is currently in the midst of its normal seasonal slowdown. Crop farmers throughout the district are optimistic about prospects for 1984, however. Grain farmers expect to benefit from the higher prices for wheat and cotton resulting from the Midwestern drought. California and Pacific Northwest farmers also expect higher prices and stronger demand for their citrus and other produce because of the freeze in Florida and Texas. They also are encouraged by the possibility that energy, interest and other production costs may only increase moderately. Farmers are concerned, however, that agricultural exports could fall again in 1984 due to the high foreign exchange value of the dollar and foreign imposition of trade barriers. Livestock producers experienced a decline in net income last year and current conditions are not favorable. The drought-induced higher feed costs are forcing ranchers to slaughter their herds earlier than usual, increasing the availability of meat and reducing prices below year-ago levels. Financial Institutions The past few months have seen a significant increase in adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) in most parts of the Twelfth District. Financial institutions have overcome borrower hesitancy with aggressive pricing and the inclusion of limits on potential increases in interest costs. Some are offering ARMs at differentials of up to 200 basis points under fixed rate mortgages, along with a below market rate of less than 10 percent for the first six months. Such pricing has opened up the market to those unable to qualify at the higher rates on fixed rate mortgages. The inclusion of caps on any future upward movement in rates also has contributed to buyer acceptance of ARMs, providing buyers at least a partial reduction in risk. The consumer meanwhile is showing signs of continued financial health, as evidenced by a sharp increase in consumer loans. In December, the amount of consumer loans outstanding (n.s.a.) at Twelfth District banks rose at an annual rate of 37 percent. The sharp increase in December boosted the annual increase in banks' consumer loans outstanding to 8 percent.