Summary In early 1984 business activity in the Seventh District is on the uptrend over a broadening spectrum of sectors. Evidence available in the District does not indicate the "slowing" suggested by some national data. The general view here is that the improvement will continue through 1984, but with a possible dampening effect from higher interest rates in the second half of the year. Employment in manufacturing is rising, but gains in nonmanufacturing are modest at best. Reports on retail sales were strong for December. Inventories are generally low. Demand for some types of mechanical capital goods, e.g. construction equipment, is strengthening. Wholesale prices are firming, but many remain below 1979 levels. Residential construction is expected to increase again in 1984, but remain far below peak years of the 1970s. Severe cold adversely affected some sectors in late December, but stimulated outlays on batteries and plumbers' bills. Rising demand is causing shortages of some materials such as gypsum board and has boosted backlogs for heavy trucks and trailers and large autos. Shortages and Leadtimes Reports indicating pressure on capacity are becoming more frequent. For December, 39 percent of the purchasing managers in Chicago and 48 percent in Milwaukee reported longer delivery leadtimes, while only a few reported shorter leads. In late 1982, delivery times were shortening. The stretchout has been particularly marked for truck trailers and custom-built heavy trucks. Large cars also are back ordered. Gypsum board producers say that shortages in the South are attracting high-cost shipments from Canada. The piggy-back rail car fleet is fully utilized. There are also some reports or tight supplies of steel sheets, computer chips, refrigerators, and car batteries. Problems of supply partly reflect cutbacks in domestic capacity. Most industries still have ample capacity, and steps are being taken to eliminate bottlenecks. Prices Some 45 percent of District purchasing managers reported paying higher prices in December, while only a few paid lower prices. A year earlier companies paying lower prices still outnumbered those paying higher prices. Prices have not risen sharply except for a few cases such as aluminum and airline fares. More moderate increases are also reported for castings. forgings, paper and paperboard, gypsum board, and some types of steel. In most industries where prices have increased, analysts insist that substantial further increases must occur if profit margins are to return to a prosperous level. Further increases in utilization rates are necessary, however, before the competitive situation will permit such increases in these industries. Consumer Purchases General merchandise retailers were very pleased with sales in the Christmas season. Sales of recreational equipment, appliances, computers, telephones, and auto accessories were especially strong. Auto sales were held back by availability of large domestic cars and Japanese cars. Credit use has been heavy, and delinquencies have been low, probably as a result of careful screening in response to more lenient bankruptcy laws. Airline traffic in December only about equalled year-ago, partly because of weather, but also because most bargain fares have been withdrawn. Employment Improved job markets in the District are still largely a result of callbacks in manufacturing. Rehires by motor vehicle and parts plants are by far the most important, but there have also been gains in appliances, mobile homes, and recreational vehicles. Residential construction is also up. In November, all District states, with Michigan far in the lead, reported good gains in factory employment from late 1982. but the shortfall from late 1978 still ranged from 15 percent in Wisconsin to 20 percent in Iowa, and 24 percent in Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan. Total non- manufacturing employment data show no improvement through November. State and local governments, public utilities, and financial institutions are generally hiring only to fill essential vacancies, and many are reducing staff. Steel Raw steel facilities are expected to operate at 65 percent of capacity in the first quarter versus 60 percent in the fourth quarter. Rates will be higher at the most modern Chicago-area mills. Demand for all types of steel is stronger, but the concentration is in cold-rolled steel, mainly for auto and truck bodies, and hot- rolled sheet for frames for trucks and large cars. Tubular "oil country" products are picking up from a low level. (Quality of some pipe on hand had deteriorated.) Demand for plates, for producer goods, and heavy structurals, also has improved, but very slightly. Steel mill operations were handicapped by a variety of problems during the severe cold of late December. Capital Goods Mechanical-type capital goods (non-electronic) are showing signs of life. Orders for large and double trailers, authorized last year, are three times current capacity, and quoted delivery times are for September. Producers of heavy-duty trucks to haul trailers are quoting April deliveries. Capacity to produce heavy trucks has been reduced and may be under strain if demand continues to rise. But the capital goods picture in the District is still far from satisfactory. Relatively few laid-off workers have been called back. Orders for freight cars increased in December, but from a very low level. In farm equipment, the anticipated spurt in sales before the turn of the year to gain tax advantages did not materialize. Parts Versus Finished Goods The capital equipment improvement is still characterized as a repair, replacement and modernization market, rather than an expansion market. Modest increases in demand for forgings, castings, components, steel bars, drill bits, and fasteners are in line with this assessment. Electric Power Electricity usage has increased in the past month or two reflecting both higher industrial demand and cold weather. This rise was welcomed by District utilities, some of which are under unprecedented financial strain. The power industry, once a rock of stability, faces perilous times because of an adverse regulatory atmosphere (both on rates and environmental considerations), and questions concerning costly facilities under construction that are not needed to accommodate prospective demand. Housing Sales of new and used houses, which slipped from the rates reached last spring, have held up better than many observers had thought possible. Assuming no significant rise in interest rates, builders expect a further increase in starts in 1984. However, the District total would still be about 50 percent short of the best years in the 1970s. An important reason for optimism in the Chicago area is the sharp rise in use of variable rate mortgages from about 25 percent last spring to 50 percent in October, even higher in new homes. First year mortgages rates of 10 percent or less are available, usually with 3 or 4 percent fees. A wide array of terms are offered, so "shopping around" on the part of home buyers is advisable.