Overview Retailers across the country enjoyed an excellent Christmas season. Year-over-year sales increases, largely real, were well into double digits. Post-holiday sales were also relatively strong. Increases in manufacturing activity were widespread. Price hikes are becoming core frequent; delivery times are lengthening. Capital spending is picking up; the emphasis is on modernization but some capacity expansion is also planned. In the banking sector, commercial and industrial loan demand increased modestly, consumer loan demand strongly. Homebuilding and housing sales have held up well in most districts. Severe weather damaged citrus and vegetable crops in the South, but did not affect winter wheat in the Midwest. Retail Trade Retail sales were very strong this Christmas. Year-over-year sales gains in December were in the 10 to 25 percent range. Several districts noted that these increases were largely real. Sales of big ticket: items such as appliances, consumer electronics and recreational equipment were particularly strong. Apparel also fared well in some areas. Credit use was heavy, according to Chicago, Minneapolis and San Francisco. Sales volumes in early January were also goad, but the year-over-year increases were not as large as in December. Inventories are generally satisfactory. Retailers are optimistic about 1964 and in the Philadelphia district they are more worried about losing sales than about accumulating excess inventories. Automobile sales have been brisk, although low inventories have been a limiting factor in several districts. Manufacturing The manufacturing sector continues to recover. Increases in orders and production were widespread. Among the industries for which increases were reported were motor vehicles and automotive products, especially trucks; nonelectrical machinery; electronics; some types of steel; chemicals; semi-conductors; paper and paper board. However, an expected upturn in farm equipment did not materialize. The demand for aircraft remains depressed in the Cleveland district, but has improved in San Francisco. Boston notes that export sales remain very weak, although sales by foreign subsidiaries are improving slightly. Capital spending is picking up. Philadelphia, commenting on its survey of manufacturers, observes that "for the first time in seven years, half of the respondents intend to increase outlays for plant and equipment during the next six months." The emphasis is on modernization and productivity enhancement, but some expansions are planned. Price increases are reported to be more frequent but, for the most part, still moderate. Lead times are lengthening. According to Chicago, cutbacks in domestic capacity have contributed to the scattered supply problems. In the Atlanta and Dallas districts, higher rig counts point to a recovery in drilling activity. Minneapolis also reports an upturn in oil activity, but not in gas and coal. Increased manufacturing activity has been reflected in more trucking and railroad business in the St. Louis district. Barge traffic has also been increasing gradually. Banking Commercial and industrial loan demand increased modestly in several districts, declined in St. Louis and rose sharply in Cleveland and Kansas City. Demand for consumer loans is strong in most districts. As loan demand has increased, banks have improved credit quality but become somewhat less liquid, according to Richmond. Real Estate Homebuilding and housing sales have held up well in most districts, although New York, Kansas City and Cleveland report a slowing in sales at year-end. Respondents in New York and Cleveland do not expect 1984 to be as strong as 1953 because most of pent-up demand has been satisfied. New York and Atlanta are also concerned about the effects of shortages and the increasing prices of housing materials. However, Chicago builders expect 1984 to be a better year and Richmond reports an upturn in speculative building, indicating that industry expectations are high. Variable rate mortgages are becoming more prevalent in the Chicago and San Francisco districts; initial rates are substantially below those on fixed rate mortgages. Agriculture Severe weather damaged citrus fruit crops in the Dallas and Atlanta districts. Fresh vegetables were also affected. However, San Francisco growers expect to benefit from the resulting price increases. The weather does not appear to have harmed the winter wheat crop, but cattle are not gaining weight at normal rates.