Aggregate business activity in the Third District has continued to grow slowly   since the previous Beige Book, although the pace of growth has shifted in a few   sectors. Manufacturing activity declined further, but the rate of decline is   tempering. Retail sales have grown somewhat faster than was the case at the time   of the last Beige Book, while auto sales have continued to increase at a   consistent pace. Lending volumes at Third District banks have continued to grow   steadily, and credit quality has continued to improve since the last Beige Book.   Demand for new home construction grew at a slightly faster pace than during the   previous Beige Book period, and brokers report steady growth in sales of   existing homes. Commercial real estate contacts report more widespread growth,   but overall demand remains modest. On average, service-sector firms report more   flattening of growth. Price pressures have changed little in most sectors since   the last Beige Book.
The overall outlook appears slightly less optimistic relative to the views   expressed in the last Beige Book, as contacts expressed uncertainty about the   presidential election and the fiscal policy decisions to follow. Expectations   among manufacturers, while still positive, have fallen further for overall   activity, anticipated hiring, and capital spending plans over the next six   months. Retailers, auto dealers, financial firms, and other service-sector firms   remain positive about the near-term outlook but are increasingly cautious due to   their customers' rising uncertainty. Real estate firms remain slightly more   optimistic with broader participation.
Optimism among Third District manufacturers that business conditions will   improve or stay the same during the next six months remains widespread, though   slightly less pervasive than reported in the last Beige Book. Among the major   sectors cited above, contacts at firms in the food and lumber industries expect   some growth, while contacts at fabricated metals and industrial machinery firms   expect some decline. Other major sectors expect no significant change over the   next six months. Firms have slightly lowered their overall expectations of   future capital spending and future hiring since the last Beige Book. Contacts   mentioned ongoing demand for autos, power generation utilities, and Marcellus   shale gas as sources of growth and optimism.
Auto sales remained moderate in Pennsylvania in July as in June, while New   Jersey dealers tended to report a repeat of their strong June sales in July and   early August. Strong demand and lean inventories are helping to support dealer   profits despite weak demand for dealer services, parts, and repairs. The   longer-term outlook for sales remains positive. Contacts point out that the   average age of cars has risen to 11 years, generating strong pent-up demand.   However, dealers remain concerned that rising consumer uncertainty will dampen   sales for the second half of the year.
Overall, nonresidential real estate activity has continued to grow slowly   since the last Beige Book. As Center City Philadelphia attracts more apartments   and condos--new construction and conversions--the remaining supply of office and   retail space has tightened somewhat. Moreover, the increased population is   attracting the interest of outside retailers. Contacts also indicated some   increased interest in commercial properties in southern New Jersey. The overall   outlook for nonresidential real estate remains one of slow growth, but it has   solidified and broadened throughout the Third District since the last Beige   Book.
