Reports from Sixth District business contacts indicated that economic activity   expanded at a modest pace in July through mid-August. The majority of contacts   described their short-term outlook for future business activity as restrained.
Most retailers indicated that sales growth had slowed with the exception of   autos, which remained quite positive. Tourism contacts continued to report   strong activity in all segments except cruise lines. Residential brokers and   builders noted improvement in home sales and construction. New and existing home   sales prices were reported to be modestly higher than year-ago levels.   Commercial builders continued to note improvement, driven by the multifamily   sector. Manufacturers reported a pullback in new orders and production levels.   According to banking contacts, loan demand remained low but some improvements   were registered in home mortgages, and auto lending was brisk. Hiring activity   remained muted across the District. The trend of using temporary workers to fill   labor needs continued to be cited by many firms. Some contacts said that they   had experienced lower overall input prices, but rising food prices was a   concern. Wage pressures remained in check.
Hospitality contacts reported strong hotel occupancy and room rates for July   through mid-August. Convention bookings showed continued strength. Cruise line   results remained below expectations. However, contacts in that sector anticipate   stronger business in 2013. Florida contacts noted a drop off in tourism activity   from Europe, but that was being offset by the increase in visitors from South   and Central America.
Reports from District homebuilders remained positive as well. Most said that   recent activity had met or exceeded their expectations. New home sales were up   notably from year-earlier levels and construction exceeded last year's levels.   Most builders reported that new home inventories declined further. Several   builders also noted that finished lots were scarce and development of new lots   would not be financially feasible until home prices increased significantly.   Most builders indicated that new home prices were flat to slightly up compared   with a year earlier. The strongest gains were again reported by Florida   builders. Homebuilders witnessed strong buyer traffic and the outlook for   construction activity and new home sales remained positive.
Apartment sector gains continued to drive improvements in the District's   commercial real estate markets. Occupancy levels were described as high and   rental rates rose further. Contacts indicated that the region's office market   continued to make small improvements, while the industrial and retail sectors   cited some weakening in demand from earlier in the year. Commercial contractors   indicated that the pace of construction improved somewhat from earlier in the   year, while backlogs have also risen in many areas. Most anticipated that   construction activity will likely mirror last year's levels through the end of   the year. Some contacts suggested that 2012 would be the bottom of the market,   with improvements expected next year.
Trucking contacts indicated that freight demand and capacity remained closely   in balance. Regulatory issues, increasing costs, and a tight driver market   continue to put pressures on bottom lines. District air cargo contacts cited   continued positive growth, however at a slightly slower pace than earlier in the   year. Sharp volume declines with Asia and Europe have been offset by increases   in other regions. Rail contacts reported continued increases in intermodal   shipments, which have helped to moderate declines in car loads of coal and   agricultural products. Shipments of construction-related materials continued to   be mixed; lumber remained positive, while aggregates and chemicals declined.
Businesses reported some relief on input prices and little change in wage   plans, although some employers noted that they were increasing starting pay for   workers with specialty skills. The potential impact of higher food prices was   noted by many companies across several sectors. Paired with the recent rise in   gasoline prices, higher food costs will have a negative impact on lower and   middle-income constituents according to community development contacts. Firms   responding to our Business Inflation Expectations survey reported steady unit   cost expectations in July. On average, they expect unit costs to rise 1.7   percent over the next 12 months. While similar to June's reading, the number was   down slightly from 1.8 percent in May.
Recent rains improved conditions in many parts of the District. Compared with   the same time last year, prices paid to farmers for soybeans, corn, oranges,   beef, hogs, and broilers were up while cotton was down. Although beef prices   have increased over the last year, contacts reported that both the drought and   high feed prices have resulted in lower prices paid to farmers on a   month-over-month basis.
