The economy of the Eighth District has continued to expand at a modest pace   since our previous survey. Retail and auto sales in July and early August   increased over year-earlier levels. Residential real estate market conditions   have continued to improve moderately. However, commercial and industrial real   estate conditions have been mixed. Recent reports of planned activity from   services firms have been positive. In contrast, reports from manufacturing   contacts have been mixed. Reports of lending activity at a sample of large   District banks during the second quarter of 2012 were somewhat mixed.
Car dealers in the District reported that sales in July and early August were   up, on average, compared with last year's sales. About 67 percent of the car   dealers surveyed saw increases in sales, while 8 percent saw decreases and 25   percent saw no changes. A third of the car dealers surveyed noted that new car   sales had increased relative to used car sales, while 13 percent reported the   opposite. Roughly 29 percent of contacts reported an increase in sales of   low-end vehicles relative to high-end vehicles, while about 13 percent reported   the opposite. Twenty-five percent of the car dealers surveyed reported that   their inventories were too low, while 17 percent reported that their inventories   were too high. The sales outlook for September and October was generally   optimistic: 67 percent of the car dealers expect sales to increase over 2011   levels, 16 percent expect sales to decrease, and 17 percent expect sales to be   similar to last year's sales.
Reports of planned activity in the District's service sector have been   positive since our previous report. Firms in financial, medical, information   technology, business support, transportation, home healthcare, and environmental   consulting services reported plans to open new facilities, expand operations,   and hire new employees. In contrast, firms in information and education services   reported plans to reduce operations and decrease employment.
Commercial and industrial real estate conditions were mixed throughout most   of the District. A contact in northeast Arkansas reported that except for   Jonesboro and Paragould, overall commercial real estate activity remains weak in   the region. A contact in Louisville noted that compared with the first five   months of 2012, the growth of office leasing activity has slowed. A contact in   St. Louis reported moderate improvement in office real estate activity and   strong demand in the industrial real estate market. Commercial and industrial   construction activity improved throughout most of the District. Contacts   reported several commercial construction projects in Jonesboro, Arkansas, and in   Bowling Green, Kentucky, while contacts in Louisville noted new speculative   construction plans in nearby Jeffersonville, Indiana.

