The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate pace over the past six weeks.   Manufacturing activity continued to expand, demand for business services   remained solid, and transportation services activity increased. Respondents said   retail sales edged up, while automobile sales held steady. The housing and   commercial real estate markets remained healthy. Financial firms noted softening   loan demand. Energy activity remained robust, and agricultural conditions   improved slightly. Employment levels were steady to slightly higher. Wage and   price pressures were modest. Most contacts noted that European debt issues and   the upcoming national elections added uncertainty to their outlooks.
The price of WTI rose from $85 in early July to $94 in mid-August. Natural   gas prices remained depressed. The price of diesel and gasoline climbed about 30   cents, and prices of petrochemical products were flat to up over the reporting   period.
High-tech manufacturers said orders were flat to slightly up over the   reporting period. Contacts reported that conditions in the semiconductor   industry were better in the U.S. than in other parts of the world. This is   largely because U.S. production centers on logic devices that are experiencing   stronger demand than memory devices, which are primarily produced outside of the   U.S. Most respondents noted that increased uncertainty will likely be a drag on   demand through year-end.
Demand for paper products remained steady, although contacts were uncertain   about what will happen over the next few months, particularly with regard to   potential tax changes after the November election. Food producers said demand   experienced a seasonal increase over the past month, but sales were lower than a   year ago. Overall, transportation equipment manufacturers said demand was flat   to up over the past six weeks. Demand for aviation equipment held steady at low   levels. Outlooks were less optimistic compared with the last report partly due   to continued weakness in demand for parts and repair of existing aircraft. A   producer of recreational vehicles noted a pickup in sales, and an emergency   vehicle manufacturer reported continued strong demand.
Petrochemicals producers reported steady demand. Demand for PVC, tied to   residential construction, improved domestically, and exports continued to be a   major source of sales. Exports of caustic soda remained strong as U.S. prices   are very competitive due to lower electricity costs. Chlorine demand edged up,   while demand for propylene weakened. Gulf Coast refiners said operating rates   remained high at 90 percent. Robust export demand for gasoline and distillates   kept inventories low, and refiners' margins remained healthy.
Automobile sales were mostly flat since the last report, but were up from   year ago levels. Inventories were lighter than desired. Contacts said political   uncertainty was hampering consumer confidence, and outlooks were cautious.
Reports from transportation service firms suggested a slight increase in   activity. Trucking firms said cargo volumes increased over the reporting period,   partly due to more oil and gas-related business. Railroads said volumes   increased since the last report. Contacts noted shipments of two of the largest   categories for rail cargo--grain and coal--declined, while volumes for lumber,   petroleum products and motor vehicles increased. Container volumes and small   parcel shipments picked up during the reporting period, while air freight   activity declined in part due to a slowdown in international cargo volumes.
Airlines noted slight softening in passenger demand in part due to   seasonality and a decline in travel to Europe. Demand for travel to Mexico   picked up, while travel to Latin America and Asia held steady. Domestic demand   remained strong for both leisure and business travel. Contacts expect weaker   passenger demand over the next few months but noted it will likely remain near   last year's levels.
Office and industrial real estate fundamentals remained healthy over the past   six weeks. Leasing activity continued at a good pace and some contacts noted a   pick-up in property sales. Outlooks were optimistic but cautious. Since the last   report, there were a few signs that investors were becoming less aggressive in   pursuing commercial real estate deals, outside of multifamily.
