The economy in the Fourth District grew at a modest pace since our last report.   On balance, manufacturing output moved slightly lower, while residential and   nonresidential construction picked up. Retailers saw a modest rise in sales   during July, and motor vehicle purchases held steady. Natural gas producers   increased production, though the demand for coal has softened. The slowdown in   freight transport volume, which began in the second quarter, has leveled off.   And the demand for business credit showed a modest increase.
Little net hiring was reported across industry sectors. Staffing-firm   representatives said that the number of job openings has declined during the   past six weeks. Open positions were found primarily in engineering, healthcare,   and manufacturing. Wage pressures are contained. Input prices were generally   stable, although concerns exist about the recent rise in agricultural commodity   prices.
Many of our contacts reported reduced capacity utilization rates, which they   attributed to weakening demand. Capital spending remains on track; however, some   respondents intend to cut back outlays during the upcoming months. Raw material   prices were either stable or declined. Several manufacturers and steel producers   reported reducing their prices to match the lower material prices. Little change   in payrolls was noted, although attracting skilled workers remains difficult.   Wage pressures are contained.
Nonresidential contractors described current business conditions as improving   and better when compared to a year ago. However, construction activity for small   to medium-size builders is still substantially below pre-recession levels, and   profit margins are tight. Project work is broad based, driven by industrial   (manufacturing and distribution), education, and healthcare clients and   multi-family housing. The short-term outlook is fairly positive, but builders   are concerned about the domestic political climate, events in Europe, and   potential defense cutbacks. Building material prices were stable. Even with the   pickup in work, residential and nonresidential builders are reluctant to hire   additional workers. Wage pressures are contained. Some residential and   commercial subcontractors have attempted to raise their billing rates but were   largely unsuccessful.
Little change was seen in the number of new-vehicle purchases during June and   July when compared with the same time period a year ago. Dealers reported that   sales of fuel-efficient vehicles and SUVs are doing particularly well.   New-vehicle inventories are on the light side, which was attributed in part to   model changeovers and tight control by manufacturers. The outlook by dealers for   the remainder of 2012 is mixed, although none of our contacts are expecting a   substantial drop-off. Purchases of used vehicles improved slightly during July   relative to June levels. Capital spending is limited to OEM-mandated remodeling   and image programs. Hiring for sales and service positions remains at a very   slow pace. Dealers have become more efficient at managing labor needs since   prior to the recession resulting in leaner payrolls.
