Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to expand at a modest pace   during the reporting period of July through mid-August. Price inflation was   limited for most final goods and services, and upward wage pressures were quite   contained. Sales of retail items rose a bit further on net, and demand for most   business and consumer services continued to expand. District manufacturing   activity appeared to inch up on balance. Agricultural output expanded, while   activity continued to trend up for providers of energy resources. Home demand in   the District strengthened a bit further, and demand for commercial real estate   was largely stable. Contacts from financial institutions reported that overall   loan demand was unchanged or weakened slightly on balance.
Upward wage pressures were quite limited overall. Wage increases were noted   for employees in some manufacturing sectors where wages had been flat for   several years; the reported increases were moderate, in the 2 to 3 percent   range. Wage gains also remained significant for workers with specialized skills   in the application of information technology. Contacts in general reported very   limited hiring plans for the balance of the year, suggesting that upward wage   pressures will remain muted.
Demand for most business and consumer services expanded further. Sales   continued to grow for a wide variety of technology services, with expectations   for further rapid growth in selected segments, such as cloud computing services.   Advertising revenues remained at high levels for radio and television   broadcasters in the District, but the slow drift of television production   activities away from District locales such as Los Angeles continued. Providers   of health-care services noted a drop in the demand for discretionary medical   services and a consequent reduction in capacity utilization at medical care   facilities. Demand picked up further for restaurants and other food-service   providers. Contacts in the District's travel and tourism sector reported   additional gains for business and leisure travel, although the pace of growth   has slowed of late in some areas such as Las Vegas.

