Fifth District economic activity improved somewhat in most sectors since our   last report, although manufacturing and employment weakened. Retail sales   improved, and non-retail services providers reported a moderate increase in   demand. Tourism contacts generally indicated that summer business was strong,   and they anticipated a busy autumn season. Widespread precipitation in July and   August brought relief from drought conditions, boosting expected crop yields.   Residential real estate activity inched up, while commercial real estate reports   were mixed. Lending activity also varied, and most mortgage lending was for   refinancing. Manufacturing activity softened as orders declined. Weaker District   hiring was led by a slowdown in requests for temp workers, although demand for   highly skilled employees persisted. Price changes generally slowed in both the   manufacturing and services sectors, with the exception of a small uptick in   retail.
Commercial real estate activity remained mixed over the last few weeks. A few   Realtors pointed to companies that were downsizing their space requirements as a   cause for limited new construction and high vacancy rates. An agent in the D.C.   area reported a recent drop in office leasing activity by as much as half from   year-ago levels. However, several Realtors noted that, due to the lack of office   construction, landlords had been offering fewer incentives to capture or retain   tenants at existing properties. Retail leasing activity was mostly described as   weak, especially among small, locally owned businesses. A contact in northern   Virginia noted weakness in many segments of the market, but notable exceptions   included car dealerships, gas stations and doctors' offices. A North Carolina   real estate agent reported that purchasing activity had picked up markedly among   his investment clients, which he attributed to national firms being increasingly   attracted to the region. A few pockets of improvement in both leasing and   construction activity were noted in eastern South Carolina, which has benefited   from an expansion in the aerospace industry, and in northern West Virginia,   where gains were driven by natural gas drilling.
