Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and based on   information collected on or before August 20, 2012. This document summarizes   comments received from business and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve   and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest economic   activity continued to expand gradually in July and early August across most   regions and sectors. Six Districts indicated the local economy continued to   expand at a modest pace and another three cited moderate growth; among the   latter, Chicago noted that the pace of growth had slowed from the prior period.   The Philadelphia and Richmond Districts reported slow growth in most sectors and   declines in manufacturing, while Boston cited mixed reports from business   contacts and some slowdown since the previous report.
Most Districts indicated that retail activity, including auto sales, had   increased since the last Beige Book report, although Cleveland, Chicago, St.   Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco noted the retail improvements were small.   Atlanta said that retail growth had slowed, while Philadelphia indicated growth   in retail sales was somewhat faster than in the previous report. Boston, New   York, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco recorded strong   performance in tourism. Many Districts reported some softening in manufacturing,   either a slowdown in the rate of growth or a decline in the level of sales,   output, or orders; among those with declining shipments and orders, Philadelphia   noted that the rate of decline was tempering.
Districts mentioning nonfinancial services noted increased activity, although   at a slowing pace in Boston, softening in New York, and "flattening" in   Philadelphia; Kansas City reported that sales of high-tech services declined   slightly. Several Districts cited declining demand for staffing services.   According to District reports, bankers in New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland,   Atlanta, Chicago, and Kansas City saw increases in demand for most loan types in   recent months; by contrast, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco indicated that   loan demand was mixed, softening, or slightly weaker.
Real estate markets were generally said to be improving. On the residential   side, all 12 Districts cited increases in home sales, home prices, or housing   construction. Reports on commercial real estate markets were also generally   positive, although San Francisco noted stable demand, Boston indicated   conditions were not much changed since the last report, and Richmond, Chicago,   and St. Louis said commercial real estate conditions were mixed.
District reports indicated that energy and mining activity was generally high   and increasing. However, Cleveland noted softening demand for coal, while   Minneapolis and Kansas City had some energy sectors up and some down. The   Midwest drought has reduced actual and expected farm output, especially cotton,   soybean, and/or corn crops in the Chicago, Kansas City, and St. Louis Districts.
Most Districts reported that the selling prices of manufacturing and retail   products were largely stable. By exception, several Districts noted concerns   about rising agricultural commodity prices, and Richmond mentioned a small   uptick in retail prices. Hiring was said to be modest across the Districts, and   wage pressures were characterized as contained.
Automobile sales are up in the New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, St. Louis,   Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts, flat in Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas,   and a bit slower paced in Richmond and San Francisco; nonetheless, vehicle   demand in the latter two Districts is still strong, especially for used cars.   The New York District reported that new car sales are "particularly robust" and   Kansas City cited a sharp increase in new vehicle sales. Atlanta, St. Louis, and   Kansas City indicated that car dealers in their Districts expected these strong   automobile sales to continue, while the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts   reported concerns that consumer uncertainty might depress vehicle sales in   coming months.
Respondents in the Boston, New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San   Francisco Districts reported that tourist industry performance remains strong.   The Atlanta District mentioned that Florida contacts reported a drop in European   travelers, but said this decline was offset by an increase in business from   Central and South America. Contacts in Boston noted some concern that weakness   in Europe could soften tourist activity and that rising gas prices could affect   leisure travel. The San Francisco District reported that the pace of growth had   slowed in Las Vegas and other areas.
Areas of strength were varied. The Cleveland and Philadelphia Districts both   pointed to the revolution in natural gas production in the United States as a   driver of demand, but the Chicago District said that a contact blamed cheap   natural gas for weakness in demand for coal. Several Districts noted that   improvements in residential construction boosted demand for products such as   lumber, PVC, cement, and home goods. The Chicago and Philadelphia Districts said   that auto production was positive, but Richmond said the opposite.
Weakness overseas remains a problem for U.S. manufacturing. Reports from the   Boston, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts explicitly mentioned it. Although Europe   represented one notable problem, several Districts also mentioned weakness in   demand in Asia as an issue. In general, District reports indicate that the cost   and availability of raw materials has not been an issue for manufacturers   recently, especially as compared with the situation in previous years. Four   Districts reported lower input costs, but contacts in New York reported a slight   increase.
On the employment front, there was little movement. Across all Districts, few   manufacturing firms reported any major hiring or layoffs, and the ones that did   usually attributed it to idiosyncratic factors like new products or   restructuring related to a merger. The Cleveland District reported that firms   continued to have trouble finding skilled workers. Capital spending also showed   little change; in addition, several Districts reported that contacted   manufacturers had not revised their investment plans.
Reports on transportation services were generally positive. Rail contacts   reported continued increases in intermodal shipments in the Atlanta District and   increased cargo volumes in the Dallas District, with both Districts recognizing   gains in lumber shipments. Atlanta and Dallas also reported steady to increasing   demand for trucking services, whereas logistics firms and carriers in the   Philadelphia District reported a relatively sluggish start to the traditional   "freight season."
The direction and magnitude of changes in loan demand varied among the   Districts and also with respect to type of loan. The Richmond and Atlanta   Districts reported generally low demand for loans, but some pockets of growth.   The Chicago District noted that growth in business loan demand was generated   mostly from small and mid-size firms and for the purpose of refinancing rather   than financing capital expenditures. Cleveland, St. Louis, and San Francisco   mentioned small positive or negative changes in business credit demand, and   relatively strong demand for consumer credit. The Kansas City District reported   stable demand for commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate   loans, while Dallas noted softer demand for loans overall; however, both   Districts cited increases in demand for residential real estate loans. The New   York and Philadelphia Districts observed growth in most lending categories.
Commercial real estate market conditions held steady or improved in nearly   all Districts in recent weeks. New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Kansas   City all reported that commercial leasing increased and vacancy rates fell. New   York and Kansas City reported increases in office rents as well; Kansas City   also cited a rise in commercial construction. Commercial building permits were   up significantly from one year ago in portions of the Minneapolis District.   Chicago's report was mixed: office vacancy rates remained high, restraining   demand for new office construction, but office leasing demand improved modestly   and industrial construction picked up. Atlanta reported rising apartment rents   and small gains in office leasing, with weakness in the retail and industrial   sectors. Boston reported that office fundamentals were flat on average, with   rising rents in portions of Boston proper and muted but steady activity   elsewhere in the District. Nonresidential construction picked up in the Boston   and Cleveland Districts. Office and industrial real estate markets remained   healthy in Dallas. The St. Louis report noted an increase in commercial   construction across much of the District and varied reports on leasing across   areas within the District. In San Francisco, demand for commercial property was   stable while commercial construction was limited. Richmond reported a decline in   office leasing volume in Washington, D.C., but some portions of the District   recorded increasing sales and construction. Multifamily real estate remained a   strong submarket and a key driver of construction in many Districts, including   Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis,   Dallas, and San Francisco.
Oil and gas activity continued to be robust across most Districts. Extraction   of natural gas and petroleum remained at high levels in the Dallas and   Minneapolis Districts and expanded in the Cleveland and Richmond Districts,   partly because of increased demand from electrical utilities. Production   increased in Gulf Coast oil refineries in the Atlanta District as a result of   closures along the East Coast, while higher demand for crude oil, diesel, and   other distillates supported prices. However, natural gas producers in the   Cleveland, Richmond, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts reported a decline in   exploration and drilling of new wells on account of high inventories and low   prices. Coal demand was unchanged from 2011 in the St. Louis District but was   expected to fall below 2011 levels in the Cleveland District due to reduced   demand for thermal coal from domestic utilities and metallurgical coal from   Europe and Asia. Iron ore, taconite, and sand mines in the Minneapolis District   continued to operate at high capacity.
Overall, upward wage pressure was reported to be very contained across   Districts. The Philadelphia and Chicago Districts both noted that despite little   wage pressure, some contacts reported upward pressures for medical benefits.   Sources from Boston and Atlanta mentioned that continuing demand was putting   some upward pressure on wages for highly-skilled positions in software,   engineering, and information technology. The San Francisco District also noted   specialized IT positions as an exception to generally limited wage growth. The   Dallas District reported upward wage pressure for truck drivers and construction   workers, and the Minneapolis District noted wage increases in areas with   increased oil drilling.
Most Districts reported that overall prices for finished goods were   relatively stable despite somewhat increased input prices. Higher prices for   grain and other food commodities were cited by many Districts, primarily due to   the drought. The Cleveland District noted increased upward pressure on lumber   prices, while contacts in Boston, Philadelphia, and Minneapolis reported higher   gasoline prices as a potential concern. Chicago mentioned some pass-through of   higher crop prices to wholesale prices, while contacts in the Kansas City and   Richmond Districts expected to raise future prices in response to more expensive   raw materials.
