The Ninth District economy grew at a modest pace since the last report.   Increased activity was noted in consumer spending, tourism, professional   services, construction and real estate, while activity slowed slightly in the   manufacturing and energy sectors. Agriculture was mixed, while mining was steady   at high levels. Overall labor market conditions were steady since the last   report, and wage increases were modest. Prices were relatively stable.
Summer tourism activity increased from last year. Fishing license sales and   visits to campgrounds and outdoor state parks and recreation areas in South   Dakota were on a record pace. A resort in northwestern Wisconsin reported solid   bookings. Tourism activity in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan was up 10 percent   to 20 percent. Visits to Glacier National Park and Yellowstone National Park   increased 20 percent and 10 percent, respectively. Activity at several other   Montana tourism attractions was also tracking ahead of last year. Meanwhile,   strong attendance levels were reported at the North Dakota State Fair in late   July.
Commercial real estate markets continued to expand. Vacancy rates for   Minneapolis office and industrial properties declined over the past year and   were expected to decline further, according to a real estate consulting firm.   Several large transactions were announced since the last report. Residential   real estate market activity was brisk. Home sales in early August were up 20   percent from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the   inventory of homes for sale was down 30 percent. In the Sioux Falls area, July   home sales were up 29 percent, inventory was down 14 percent and the median   sales price rose 6 percent relative to a year earlier.
Wage increases were modest, with some exceptions. Wage rates in the   oil-drilling area of western North Dakota and eastern Montana continued to   climb. A Minnesota manufacturer noted that workers with higher skills were   getting some increases in wages, while wages for lower-skilled workers were   flat.
Prices were relatively stable. Metals prices were down somewhat since the   last report. However, mid-August Minnesota gasoline prices were up about 30   cents per gallon from early July.
