Reports from business contacts in the First District are somewhat mixed. Tourism   contacts and some retailers cite strong results, but other merchants are more   downbeat. Manufacturers mostly report solid performance, but a couple have seen   sales fall compared with a year earlier. Software and IT services firms indicate   business is good, but somewhat slower than three months ago, while staffing   firms say recent results are below expectations. Commercial real estate   conditions are not much changed, with the Boston market said to be stronger than   the rest of New England; gradual recovery continues in most residential real   estate markets around the region. Business contacts say they are hiring only   modestly; prices are generally reported to be stable. Outlooks remain uncertain.
The tourism industry continues to see growth. Contacts expect that overall   2012 performance will be strong, but express concern that performance will   weaken over the last few months of the year. While a rebound in business travel   has fueled 2012 performance to date, weakness in Europe might slow this down.   Moreover, rising gas prices could have negative repercussions for leisure   travel.
On the employment front, while most contacts say they are hiring, none   reports any significant additions. A major defense contractor expects   significant layoffs in the coming months but attributes them largely to   rationalization of operations in the wake of a merger. A tool manufacturer   blames weak demand for a 5 percent headcount reduction but says they will   concentrate most of the layoffs in Europe. On the plus side, a luxury goods   manufacturer reports that, for the first time since 2008, workers are quitting   to take better jobs with other firms. A firm in the chemical industry indicates   it is exceptionally profitable but is still hiring only "selectively" to replace   outgoing workers and fill specific needs.
Few manufacturers report revising their investment plans in recent months;   several note that they have plenty of cash available but don't yet feel   confident or see the need for additional capital spending. Several firms mention   that merger and acquisition activity is heating up. Some say they hope to pick   up bargains but others say that prices are too high. A contact in the chemical   industry says that he has done due diligence on several potential targets and   each time he was outbid. A respondent in the semiconductor industry reports that   they were the target of acquisition interest and a medical device supplier was   recently acquired by Japanese firm.
Contacts say the pricing picture is much more benign than it has been in   recent years. A dairy business is the only respondent complaining of high input   prices, which are specifically related to the drought in the Midwest. A contact   in the chemical business reports that pricing of inputs to his processes is   exceptionally good, which he attributes to weakness in China, Brazil, and India.
Few manufacturing contacts have significantly revised their outlooks. The   main concerns remain the so-called "fiscal cliff" and the situation in Europe.   Europe does not seem to be as much of an issue as it has been in recent cycles,   however, with only four contacts specifically mentioning it and only one   identifying it as a major problem. Two respondents independently note that firms   are paying bills on time, which they say is a good sign about the state of the   economy.
The outlook among software and IT services contacts is not appreciably   different from that of three months ago. Most are cautiously optimistic and   expect current growth rates to continue into 2013.
Investor interest in Greater Boston commercial real estate remains high,   especially for multifamily rental properties, and interest rate spreads are   lower than a year earlier for comparable deals. Apartment construction extended   its recent boom in the city and some large build-to-suit office projects have   broken ground in recent months. One Boston-based bank lender notes an increase   in small-scale (under $10M) loan demand in recent months in the office and   retail sectors. Outside of Boston, construction and investment sales activity   remain limited. A few contacts remark that political uncertainty is putting a   damper on business sentiment. In particular, the threat of tax hikes (at all   levels of government) is seen as a possible restraint on economic activity in   the coming months. By contrast, no contacts cite significant upside risks to   growth in the commercial property sector, although Boston is expected to remain   a magnet for investors.
Consecutive months of year-over-year growth in sales have made contacts feel   more confident about recovery in the housing market. In areas where inventory   levels have been high for the past few years, concerns have been calmed by   declining inventory and increasing home prices. Most contacts predict   year-over-year growth in sales, albeit at a slower pace than recently, and   anticipate modest increases in the median sale price of homes in coming months.
