The Second District's economy has continued to expand at a modest pace since the   last report. Despite some pickup in commodity price pressures, prices of   finished goods and services have generally been stable. There have been   scattered signs of softening in the labor market: while manufacturers continue   to add workers, firms in other industries have scaled back hiring. A growing   number of contacts in both manufacturing and other sectors report some softening   in business conditions. Retailers, however, report generally favorable results:   auto dealers note that sales remain fairly strong, and non-auto retailers report   some recent improvement. Tourism activity has remained strong. Residential real   estate markets have shown signs of improvement, and Manhattan's office market   picked up slightly. Finally, bankers report increased loan demand, no change in   credit standards, and further declines in delinquency rates.
Auto dealers in upstate New York continue to report strong sales. New vehicle   sales are characterized as particularly robust--up 14 percent from a year   earlier--in the Rochester area. Buffalo-area dealers are seeing gains of about 7   percent. Sales of used cars and business at dealers' service departments are   also described as fairly robust. Wholesale and retail credit conditions remain   favorable.
Tourism activity has been mixed but generally strong since the last report.   Hotels occupancy rates in the Albany and Buffalo areas have climbed and are well   ahead of year-earlier levels. New York City hotels indicate that revenues per   room were up roughly 6 percent from a year ago in June but up by a more modest 2   percent in July, as growth in room rates slowed and occupancy rates leveled off   at close to 90 percent. With a 2-3 percent increase in the total number of hotel   rooms in the city, this suggests continued fairly brisk growth in tourism   activity. Attendance at Broadway theatres picked up in July and remained robust   in early August, running 4-5 percent ahead of a year earlier, while revenue was   up roughly 10 percent, reflecting higher ticket prices.
Manhattan's office market strengthened somewhat in July, as leasing activity   picked up and vacancy rates edged down. Asking rents for Class A office space   rose modestly and continued to run more than 10 percent ahead of a year earlier.   A real estate contact also reports that retailers have started leasing more   ground-floor space in apartment buildings that have recently reached full   occupancy.
Labor market conditions across the District have been mixed, but somewhat   weaker, on balance, since the last report. While manufacturers report that they   continue to add workers, on net, firms in other sectors indicate that they have   cut back on hiring. Moreover, both manufacturers and non-manufacturing firms   recently scaled back their near term hiring plans. Separately, a major New York   City employment agency specializing in office jobs reports that hiring activity   was even more sluggish in July and early August than is usual for the this time   of year. A contact in the securities industry reports that there has been   neither any significant increase in layoffs nor much hiring.
