Introduction While economic conditions remain very depressed throughout the nation, there is a widespread view that a bottom was reached in the first quarter, possibly in January when severe weather hampered activity over a large portion of the nation. Allowing for weather effects, retail sales, manufacturing, employment, and construction have been about level since late last year. Despite deep pessimism, panic has been avoided. Sluggishness is expected to continue in the second quarter with some improvement about midyear, hopefully aided by lower interest rates. Price inflation continues to slow. With a downturn developing in oil and gas development, defense procurement becomes the principal expanding sector. Finished goods inventories are too high in some sectors, but most purchased materials are under close control. Capital spending plans generally are being reduced. Auto and appliance sales remain weak. Extreme caution holds back decisions on consumption and investment, especially on major items. Housing remains severely depressed everywhere, but some districts report incipient improvement. Office building construction is still vigorous in some large centers. Crop prices remain low partly because of large harvests projected for this year, but livestock prices have increased. Several districts report increased bankruptcies and more problem credits for consumers, business, and agriculture. The financial condition of S&Ls continues to deteriorate and they probably will not be able to finance a resurgence in housing. Several districts report business loan demand as "flat," but outstandings are buoyed up by expanding energy loans, and loans that are not being paid on schedule because of financial problems afflicting various borrowers. Regional differences All of the district reports follow, in general, the outline described above, but there are noticeable differences. The Chicago and Cleveland districts with their emphasis on hard goods continue to present the blackest pictures. New York, on the other hand, finds that the Second District is "weathering the recession quite well." Philadelphia may be "on the verge of a turnaround." Minneapolis sees "hints of recovery." Dallas reports autos and housing "showing initial signs of recovery." At the other extreme, San Francisco (in the past one of the most vigorous growth regions) has "slipped deeper into recession," with home-building at the lowest level since World War II, and distress in housing replacing the fabulous boom of the late 1970s. Inflation Price increases clearly have slowed, with exceptions in some lines. Philadelphia reported, however, that increases in industrial prices were more prevalent in March. Cleveland and Chicago note substantial pressure by producers on labor and suppliers to cut costs. Goods and services are readily available, and price discounting is widespread. Chicago noted far-reaching ramifications of the declines in crude oil and oil product prices, as a result of the world-wide excess supply of oil. Employment Additional layoffs and reduced hours, affecting full-time and part-time workers in a wide variety of lines of business, were reported by most districts. New York characterized overall labor market conditions there as relatively strong. Dallas noted deterioration since December, due to layoffs and immigration of the unemployed from other districts, but reported an unemployment rate in February of only 5.8 percent. Layoffs in the Fourth District included workers from the last auto passenger tire plant in Akron. San Francisco indicated that most of the boost to employment from rising defense spending will occur in 1983-1984, not this year. In response to widespread layoffs and reduced job opportunities, unionized workers have been increasingly willing to grant concessions. Consumption Retail sales reports are mixed, but generally indicate sluggish or weak spending. Lack of confidence and negative expectations were noted as restraining outlays. Those who commented on the outlook project a rise in consumer expenditures in the second half of this year. Minneapolis and Dallas noted signs of recovery in auto sales in response to rebates. Evidence of financial strains, consumer loan delinquencies, rising personal bankruptcies, and closing of retail stores, was reported. Inventories Reports on inventories are difficult to characterize because of a highly mixed picture by industry, by stage of fabrication and distribution, and by region. In general, raw materials and purchased components are low, while finished goods have become excessive when sales sagged. San Francisco tells of "involuntary" accumulation. Philadelphia reports retail inventories "pretty clean", in general. Richmond notes a rise in manufacturing inventories. Boston finds stocks generally too high, but packaging materials "very low." Cleveland says oil product inventories are being cut, but not crude oil. Aluminum is high at the producer level, and "extremely low" at the fabricator level. To sum up, except for particular imbalances, inventories are low relative to normal standards because of heavy finance charges and uncertain sales prospects. Chicago and Kansas City warn that a rise in final sales could quickly bring longer lead times and higher prices. Capital spending District reports suggest a significant decline in capital spending in 1982. Low business confidence is a major factor. San Francisco and Boston are affected by layoffs related to reduced demand for commercial aircraft. The drop in oil prices has brought a reduction in drilling in all producing regions. Demand for related equipment has dropped, and a proposed oil pipe mill has been canceled. New York and Cleveland report cancellations of orders for machine tools. The TVA has halted construction on three nuclear plants. Commercial construction is weak except for large office building in centers such as New York, Chicago, Cleveland, and Dallas. Manufacturing Defense procurement is vigorous, but these activities are most significant in a few districts: San Francisco, Dallas, St. Louis, and Boston. Steel and motor vehicle output are down sharply, but there are signs of improvement. Appliance output also is down currently. Textiles are down in Atlanta and apparel in Dallas. Petrochemical output is off in several districts. Richmond reports a rise in demand for cigarettes. Overall, manufacturing output remains depressed but may be past its low point. Housing The housing picture varies from bad to worse throughout the nation. Dallas and Minneapolis report a recent rise in home sales, but Richmond, San Francisco, St. Louis, Chicago and most other districts have observed no improvement in starts from an extremely low level. A backlog of demand for housing is building up with few unsold units, as reported by Kansas City. Lower interest rates are the only hope for home building this year and time is running out, at least for the northern states. More builders and subcontractors are leaving the field. "Creative financing" has not proved of much help. Agriculture Large crops are forecast for the South, the Midwest, and the Great Plains, especially wheat, soybeans, and corn. Production plans indicate large plantings, and subsoil moisture conditions are excellent. Large crops suggest further downward pressure on prices. Livestock prices have been rising, but most experts project a further decline in net farm income. Farm land prices are declining and delinquencies and bankruptcies are rising. Heavy debts at high interest rates, combined with lower income, could cause further deterioration in the financial condition of agriculture. Finance Uncertainty continues to characterize the financial markets. Business loan demand is described as weak or flat in most districts. Business credit ratings are being downgraded, and more loans require special attention. New York experts say business liquidity continues to deteriorate, and more ratings will be downgraded soon. Mortgage credit is very tight, both for housing and commercial projects. Usury rates are impeding credit use in some states, especially for credit cards and auto loans.