The Twelfth District economy has slipped deeper into recession since the last report. Consumer spending has remained at the slow post-Christmas holiday level reached in January and is running below the year-ago level in real terms. In the manufacturing and mining industries, further cutbacks and layoffs are occurring in a number of industries, although the pace of the overall decline appears to be decelerating. Homebuilding activity has dropped recently, in contrast to the national pattern, and nonresidential construction also is slowing. Agricultural commodity prices have risen slightly during the past month but remain well below the level of a year ago. Respondents expect little or no improvement in net farm income in 1982, following 1981's decline. Bank credit at Twelfth District banks rose sharply in February, but as a result of weakness rather than strength in the regional economy. Consumer Spending Respondents report little change in retail sales from the slow post-Christmas holiday pace reached in January. Spending remains weak, running below the level of a year ago in real terms. Consumers continue to exhibit cautious spending behavior, staying away from costly durable goods such as furniture and appliances and confining their purchases to apparel and other necessities. Large department stores are doing better than smaller retail outlets which are reported to be going out of business in increasing number, especially in rural communities. While most retail outlets are no longer liquidating excess inventory, they are reported to be holding stocks at "bare-bone" levels, buying much less spring and summer merchandise than a year ago. This conservative inventory pattern reflects not only high interest rates but their belief that consumer spending probably will remain sluggish for the next few months. Automobile sales did pick up somewhat in February, in response to the domestic car rebate program, but still remained depressed relative to a year ago. Moreover, respondents are concerned that these purchases are being "borrowed" from subsequent periods and that auto sales will drop sharply when the rebates are eliminated. Mining and Manufacturing Respondents report further cutbacks in production and employment, but at a decelerating rate. Employment in the lumber and mining industries has stabilized at a very depressed level, with these industries operating at about 60 percent of capacity or less. But layoffs continue in the construction, commercial aircraft, aluminum and automobile industries. For example, the Boeing Company in Seattle recently announced plans to layoff as many as 5,000 workers this year because of slow demand for commercial aircraft by foreign and domestic airlines. General Motors Corporation recently closed its assembly plant at Fremont, California, and will shut down its plant at South Gate, California on April 1. These closures will layoff 2,500 and 500 workers at those respective locations and will have ripple effects on other industries. While rising defense spending is having some positive impact on regional employment, most of the stimulus is expected in 1983-84 when programs such as the B-l bomber move into the production phase. Real EstateThe Twelfth District has failed to experience the pickup in either new home sales or homebuilding reported elsewhere. On the contrary, sales of new homes remain so depressed that builders are still trying to dispose of unsold inventory. As a result, homebuilding activity has dropped to a new post-World War II low. Buyers are purchasing only when essential and only when extraordinary financing is provided by sellers. The slump in sales is eroding selling prices for both new and older single-family homes and condominiums, causing prices to drop below year-ago levels in real terms. Moreover, realized prices are lower than selling prices because of seller-financed transactions at below market interest rates. Distress among builders, brokers and property owners is especially great in areas of higher than average unemployment. Nonresidential construction activity also has been dropping recently as business firms have scaled back capital spending programs. Even the boom in office building construction has subsided as a glut of space has begun to appear in metropolitan areas. Agriculture Twelfth District farmers and ranchers experienced a decline in both gross and net farm income in 1981 as bumper crops combined with lagging demand to reduce commodity prices. Prices for a large number of commodities have risen recently but remain well below the level of a year ago. Thus, unless farmers produce significantly less in 1982 than in 1981, little or no improvement in farm income is likely this year. So far, agricultural sources are pessimistic that farmers will carry out that production cutback. Although the Department of Agriculture has reinstated several set-aside programs to reduce planted acreage, Twelfth District farmers generally are not expected to take advantage of those programs. Meanwhile, farmers and ranchers already are heavily in debt and finding it increasingly difficult to meet loan payments. Financial Institutions Bank credit at Twelfth District banks rose sharply in February as a result of a strong increase in business loans. However, as in recent months, the increase appeared to stem from the economy's weakness rather than from strength. Businesses are borrowing to finance involuntary inventory accumulation and to meet short-term working capital needs. Bankers also report an across-the-board deterioration in the financial condition of many prospective business borrowers. In other areas, real estate loans continued to expand at a sluggish pace. Demand for new mortgage loans continued to be weak, with a slowdown in liquidation of old loans helping to account for the increase. Consumer loans dropped for the second consecutive month. Loans for automobiles and consumer durables were especially weak as rising unemployment caused further weakness in household borrowing. Bankers also report an upward drift in consumer loan delinquency rates and personal bankruptcies.