Overview Pessimism pervades recent reports on Fifth District business activity and there appear to be very few bright spots to help this outlook. Other than the tobacco industries and some energy related activities such as coal mining and gas drilling, economic and business activity seems almost uniformly weak. Manufacturers report further declines in shipments, new orders, and order backlogs in the past month. Retailers report little change from the low levels of sales in recent months. Residential construction has shown no signs of recovery. Automobiles and other consumer durables are not moving. As a result, large segments of some industries; stone, clay, and glass; textiles; and major appliances; are operating at severely reduced levels. The Manufacturing Sector Although the rate of decline may have moderated over the past month, District manufacturers report continued weakness in most measures of activity. New orders and order backlogs were down broadly and over half our respondents report reductions in employment and in the length of the average work week since last month. Inventories are generally higher with stocks of finished goods up substantially. Current plant and equipment capacity is considered excessive by most respondents. Over one-third of the manufacturers surveyed report declines in prices received and several report paying lower prices than last month. Employee compensation, on balance, appears unchanged recently. Consumer Spending Retail trade has shown few signs of any recovery. Automobile and other big ticket items, in particular, are not moving at all and large inventories are causing trouble among dealers. Furniture and major appliances are in a holding pattern awaiting some pickup in housing construction and sales, but there is little expectation of any significant improvement over the next few months. There are scattered reports that we may be seeing some stirrings in the general merchandise lines, but the evidence is far from conclusive. There is a widely held view that negative expectations are, and will continue to be, a severely depressing factor with consumers. Housing and Construction The construction industry continues spotty with the housing sector almost uniformly weak. At this point even pockets of strength in housing seem non-existent. Commercial and industrial construction continues to lend some strength, but even here the situation seems to have deteriorated in recent weeks. Projects already underway are continuing, but there are few indications that much new activity is appearing. The outlook for construction is little more positive than current conditions. Despite a generally perceived backlog of demand for housing units financing terms and uncertainty about the prospects for long term financing have created a block against any turnaround in construction activity. Agriculture Comments of Richmond directors suggest that prospects for agricultural output are generally favorable around the District. Moisture conditions in some areas are reported to be the best in four years. With cigarette production at current high levels tobacco prices have been favorable to farmers. Other farm prices are generally weak and several of our directors see serious problems for District farmers under the circumstances. The Financial Sector Business loan demand is very weak but generally stable according to our directors in the financial sector. Mortgage lending is also soft across the District. Response to the expanded IRA eligibility has apparently been somewhat weaker than expected, at least to date. The Outlook The outlook of manufacturers surveyed continued to improve over the past several weeks. Nearly a third of the respondents expect the level of activity nationally to improve over the next six months and almost half expect improvement for their respective firms. Retailers are even less pessimistic. As noted above, the outlook for housing remains very uncertain. There is some concern that home buyers must adapt to the new types of financing and that this factor will further delay a full blown recovery. On the other hand, the backlog of housing demand is expected by some to make activity extremely responsive to a decline in interest rates.