Summary Seventh District economic activity continues very depressed. However, better weather conditions after mid-February aided a revival in some sectors. Retail trade continues slow. Further layoffs have occurred in a wide variety of employment categories. Equipment manufacturers report further weakness in orders. Construction industry prospects have deteriorated further. High interest rates, heavy debt burdens, and reduced cash flow have placed many business and financial enterprises in precarious positions. State and local governments are budgeting severe restrictions on spending. It appears that the general economic decline has moderated. A few sectors report gains in recent weeks, including steel, light trucks, office equipment, and airline travel. All types of goods and services are readily available, and price discounting is widespread. Pressures are strong to cut production costs, especially labor costs. Agriculture faces another year of depressed income, especially if crops are as large as expected. Bank loans to business remain strong, but more doubtful credits are requiring special attention. Confidence Weakens Recent surveys of business and consumer attitudes in district centers show a further erosion of confidence. The region has been plagued by a three-year recession which has seriously depressed morale, especially for those who have never experienced an extended period of trouble. For the general public the main concern is loss of income and scarce job opportunities. Executives, in addition to worrying over their own companies' problems, are disturbed over huge prospective federal deficits and high interest rates. Low morale, even fear, is deep and widespread. The Oil Glut Price declines for crude oil and most oil products, especially gasoline, have surprised many analysts. Ramifications have been profound. Pressures to develop alternative fuels have subsided. More refineries are being closed. A growing surplus is noted for line pipe and oil field equipment. Demand for diesel- powered vehicles has eased, EPA-MPG may be deemphasized, and the RV industry's prospects have improved. Employment In January, payroll employment was 3 percent below a year earlier in the district, while the nation was about even. Compared with January 1979, when this region was relatively prosperous, district employment was down 5 percent, while employment in the nation was 3 percent. All the district states compare unfavorably with the nation, but the hardest hit are Michigan, Indiana, and Iowa. The principal sectors accounting for the plight of district states are motor vehicles and agriculture. State jobless pay funds in Michigan and Illinois are heavily indebted to the federal government. Wisconsin borrowed recently and Iowa expects to do so. Job Opportunities Demand for workers is very soft. Information that a company is hiring brings a flood of applicants. State unemployment compensation offices open to long lines and operate at capacity. Help-wanted ad lineage in Chicago papers is running about 25 percent below last year, and more than 50 percent below two years ago. State and local governments are cutting staff, including employment service offices. Labor management negotiations similar to those publicized in the auto and trucking industries are widespread. Various companies have reduced compensation for white collar workers and executives, hoping to achieve the same changes in union contracts in upcoming negotiations. Inflation Price inflation has slowed significantly. Trucking rates have been reduced, and the advance in rail rates has slowed. Auto companies have demanded 2 percent, across-the-board price reductions from suppliers who, in turn, passed similar demands on to their suppliers. Purchasing managers are asking price concessions and threatening to change sources, instead of accepting price increases passively. However, costs of shoes, medical care, tuition, and utility services have continued to rise at a very rapid pace. Inventories Inventories of oil, paper, general merchandise (at retail), farm and construction equipment, and some autos are excessive because of poor sales. Holdings of steel, nonferrous metals, building materials, and components are quite low. Buying is hand-to-mouth, to a degree unknown in recent years. A pickup in final demand could quickly tighten the lines of supply, increase orders to factories, and moderate intense competition. Capital Spending Construction contracts, orders for producer goods, and announcements by various companies suggest a sharper reduction in capital spending than the one percent drop projected by the government survey. Various projects have been shelved in the steel, vehicle, and utility industries. Producers of pipelayers and bulldozers are protesting the ban on sales to Russia. Motor Vehicles Auto sales were very weak in recent weeks, despite rebates. Light truck sales responded to rebates and were up 20 percent in February, but heavy truck sales were down 17 percent. Production of vehicles has declined more than sales and schedules appear somewhat firmer. The third quarter schedule is above last year's. Steel March saw a slight improvement in steel shipments from the very depressed level of February. April is expected to continue this trend. Inventories of steel users are very low relative to usage. Normal lead times of 6-10 weeks are down to one week in some cases. Retail Sales Consumers have been holding back on spending, either because of reduced income or increased caution as to future income. Installment credit use is below normal. Among the few lines selling well are video games, video recorders, auto supplies, and children's merchandise. Construction Permits for new residential units have been close to zero. There is much concern over problems of rolling over short-term home mortgage financing. While nonresidential prospects also are generally poor, at least three large new office buildings have been cleared for construction in downtown Chicago. Rehab work on older buildings has been stimulated by tax benefits. The public sector outlook is very bleak, for two years ahead. Agriculture Pessimism in the farm sector is deep and widespread. This year's rise in farm production costs will be modest, but net farm income probably will decline significantly from the depressed levels of the past two years. Farmers are holding back on all types of outlays. Most farm lenders are confronted with loan collection problems, but these are generally considered to be manageable.