The Seventh District economy continued to expand in March and early April, with reports suggesting that gains were more widespread than during the previous Beige Book period. Contacts suggested that both consumer and business spending continued to improve modestly. Hiring generally remained subdued, though there were scattered reports of firming labor demand. Overall construction and real estate activity remained strong. Manufacturing continued to expand solidly. Lending activity generally picked up slightly. Prices appeared to be firming at both the producer and retail levels, though there were no new reports of upward pressure on wages and other labor costs. The situation for farmers continued to improve, as agricultural prices generally rose and field conditions were favorable for spring planting in almost all of the District. Consumer spending Reports on consumer spending were again somewhat mixed, but suggested further improvement in March and early April. A contact with one national department store chain said that sales gains so far this fiscal year were in the low double digits, above their expectations. These gains were driven primarily by strong sales of home-related items as well as a notable pickup in women's apparel and accessory sales. Moreover, a large regional discounter said that food and other nondurables were selling well. Consumers were also said to be more responsive to advertising. On balance, merchants said that inventories remained lean. March theater ticket sales were up from a year earlier, according to one contact, due in part to some highly anticipated movie releases. Light vehicle sales in the District were somewhat soft again in March and early April, despite increased consumer incentives. Some dealers said that inventories were higher than desired, and they were cutting back orders for new vehicles. Contacts in tourism said that leisure travel in the region was generally flat. Business spending Overall business spending continued to firm modestly in March and early April. A contact with one large technology firm said the improving economic environment led Information Technology managers to raise their forecasts for equipment and software spending in 2004. Some retailers have boosted their expansion plans for the year. However, contacts suggested that business travel remained relatively weak. A contact with one staffing services firm noted that new orders from manufacturers picked up sharply in recent weeks, particularly in the skilled trades. There were scattered reports of new permanent full-time hiring, and more firms indicated that they plan to hire later in the year. Still, much of the actual new hiring so far appears to be temporary, seasonal, or part-time. According to several contacts, many firms still lack enough confidence in the expansion's sustainability to increase their permanent workforces. Construction and real estate Overall construction and real estate activity remained strong, buoyed by low interest rates and improving economic conditions. Existing home sales were again robust in most areas, with one Chicago-area Realtor adding that some homes in the ultra-luxury market were "starting to move, after sitting on the market for quite a while." New home sales and permits were strong as well, although some contacts said that the upper end of the new home market remained soft. Realtors and builders alike appeared more optimistic about home sales in 2004 than they had been during our previous reporting period. Nonresidential activity was still sluggish, although there were scattered reports of improvement. Much of the new activity was reported to be in the light industrial, retail, and infrastructure segments. Although office leasing picked up slightly, the market remained soft and many contacts suggested it will remain so in the foreseeable future. One contact said that with weak job creation and an abundance of available space, office rents were generally flat, and landlords were "beating each other up to get a lease signed." Manufacturing Manufacturing activity continued to expand solidly in the District. Contacts in a wider array of key industry segments reported stronger new orders, shipments, and backlogs while inventories remained generally lean. One steelmaker described demand as "still very hot," adding that his firm was running at capacity and turning down some new orders. In turn, a heavy equipment manufacturer noted that production was being limited somewhat by shortages of materials, particularly steel. This contact also said that new orders and backlogs in March were up considerably from a year ago, due in part to continued strength in construction and a rebound in some mining industries. Producers of cement and gypsum wallboard also cited the active construction market as contributing to strong new orders and shipments. Automakers noted that light vehicle demand continued to firm nationally in March, though inventories were still somewhat elevated. However, automakers have not altered second-quarter production plans because they expect sales to pick up. Banking and finance On balance, lending activity picked up slightly in recent weeks. On the consumer side, one lender reported that credit card volumes were trending up in March and early April. Applications for residential mortgages rose in March; many bankers said that new originations remained strong into early April, while refinancing subsided after a "mini boomlet" in March. Consumer credit quality generally continued to improve and there were no changes reported in standards and terms for household loans. Business loan volumes were again relatively flat, well below most bankers' expectations. Many lenders said that their customers' cash flows were improving, and that firms were using that cash to meet their short-term liquidity needs rather than borrowing. Demand for small business and commercial real estate loans appeared stronger than for other types of loans. Business credit quality continued to improve modestly, and there were no discernible changes in covenants and/or collateral requirements. Prices and costs Reports of firming prices were more frequent in March and early April. Apart from auto dealers, retailers generally indicated they were using less discounting to move merchandise than a year ago. Some materials prices (such as for steel, cement, and gypsum wallboard) increased notably in March. Many contacts suggested that domestic inventories of some materials were very lean, and the availability of low-priced foreign product was limited by a weaker dollar and sharply higher freight rates. At the producer level, manufacturers were largely successful in passing materials cost increases through to their customers. There were no reports of new upward pressures on wages and other labor costs. Agriculture Agricultural conditions improved again this reporting period. Agricultural prices for corn, soybeans, milk, hogs, and beef generally were higher. Most farmers have sold their stored crops, generating higher farm income that has contributed to an increase in overall spending in rural communities. Sales of both new and used farm equipment have increased, especially smaller items at auction. With spring planting beginning, ground moisture levels were reported to be abundant in most of the District, with only a few areas facing inadequate subsoil moisture. Contacts reported that planting intentions had shifted, with more acres expected to be allocated to corn and fewer to soybeans. This shift was due to recent relative price changes as well as expectations for higher soybean yields resulting from planting soybeans every third year rather than alternating every year with corn. With most farmers applying fertilizer in the fall, energy price increases have not had a large impact yet. Land values and cash rents of agricultural land moved upward again, leading to speculation that some leases will be renegotiated this summer.