Summary Economic conditions in the Twelfth District are characterized by continued weakness in California offset partly by relatively strong activity in other states. The outlook of western business leaders, however, continues to improve. Materials prices are reported unchanged or down slightly, and wage increases remain moderate. Consumer spending continues to be sluggish, with little pick-up noted since the end of the Gulf War. Agriculture is hindered by drought conditions in some parts of the District. Construction and real estate markets remain soft, but some improvement has appeared in sales and prices in California. District financial institutions report generally slow conditions, although lower interest rates have spurred mortgage refinancing activity. Business Sentiment The economic expectations of western business leaders continued to improve in April. Forty-seven percent of those sampled expect improvement in housing starts in the coming four quarters, and a similar percentage expect increased consumer spending. This is a strong pick-up from the end of 1990 when over 90 percent of respondents expected conditions to worsen in these sectors. Over 50 percent of business leaders continue to project improvement in the foreign trade balance and inflation during the next four quarters. Even with the more positive outlook, over 65 percent of respondents still expect unemployment to increase and over 75 percent continue to foresee GNP growth of less than 2.5 percent in the coming four quarters. Wages and Prices Prices for many Twelfth District products and services are reported to be unchanged or down slightly. Many reports suggest that declines in fuel prices have helped to bring down overall prices. The Salt Lake City and Boise area CPIs declined in the first quarter of 1991. In Southern California, one report indicates that the price of newsprint is 2 percent below last year's level. Wage increases remain moderate. Most respondents report wage gains of only 3 to 4 percent, with minimal wage pressure on large employers currently involved in labor negotiation. Increases of as much as 10 percent continue to be reported for health care and tuition casts, however. Retail Trade and Services Consumer spending in the Twelfth District remains sluggish, with only a few reports indicating a significant pick-up since the end of the Gulf War. A food and drug retailer notes some improvement in sales around Easter, especially outside of California. Auto sales continue weak in the District, although showroom traffic is reported to have increased steadily since the end of the war. Hawaii's tourism industry is just beginning to recover from the sharp drop in Japanese visitors earlier this year. Advertising at television stations in the Pacific Northwest has increased since the end of the war, but newspaper advertising volume in Southern California remains off 20 percent. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the Twelfth District is relatively solid outside of defense-related industries. Conditions in the aerospace industry continue to be split, with commercial aerospace growing while defense-related activity slows. In the Pacific Northwest, shipyards are reporting solid growth. In Oregon, a helicopter supply firm and a heavy equipment supplier are reported to he expecting orders associated with the rebuilding of Kuwait. Export demand has boosted sales of agricultural machinery to Mexico and Brazil. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Agricultural and resource industries in the Twelfth District continue to report weak conditions. In California, the freeze in late December cut citrus fruit production and exports in half and destroyed many fruit and nut trees. Continued drought conditions in California have caused farmers to cut back on acreage planted for many crops, including a 15 to 20 percent drop in cotton acreage planted in the San Joaquin Valley. Prices for many crops affected by the drought are expected to rise, which will help to offset the impact of the reduced plantings on cash receipts. Grain prices are well below last year's levels. The cattle industry remains in good shape, but higher commodity costs are reported to be tightening profit margins. Forest product industries in the District continue to be hampered by court actions which are halting federal timber sales. Some pick-up in lumber sales and prices is noted in recent months. Copper and aluminum prices have fallen recently. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate activity show signs of improvement in California, and remain relatively healthy in the Pacific Northwest and Intermountain areas. In California, reports suggest that home prices are stabilizing. Moreover, sales activity has increased in recent months. Single-family and condominium sales in Los Angeles are reported to have doubled between February and March. Home prices are rising moderately in the Pacific Northwest, Idaho, and Utah. Commercial markets are weak in California as vacancy rates increased in Los Angeles and remained high in other markets. Some reports suggest that over-capacity will continue to depress commercial construction in Los Angeles for two to five years. Conversely, reports from Salt Lake City note low vacancy rates and rising rents. Financial Institutions Financial institutions in the Twelfth District report generally sluggish conditions. In Southern California, loan demand remains slow, while a Silicon Valley banker reports that loan demand is strong, but deposit growth has fallen off. The decline in interest rates has caused a flood of mortgage refinancing in the Pacific Northwest. One report indicates that 35 to 40 percent of recent real estate loan originations have been refinancings.