Overview District business and financial conditions apparently improved in March and early April. Commercial and industrial loan demand, housing starts and sales, and tourist activity all rose. Consumer spending and manufacturing activity were steady, after several months of decline, and export activity outpaced import activity at District ports. The return of military personnel boosted some local economies, and agricultural conditions remained strong. Consumer Spending Responses to our regular survey of retailers suggested that retail activity was steady in recent weeks. Retailers reported little change in sales and shopper traffic, although over half believed that the end of the Gulf War benefited sales. Employment apparently decreased slightly, while wholesale and retail prices evidently increased somewhat. Retailers expressed optimism about their prospects in coming months. Over three-fourths expected their traffic and sales to rise. On balance, survey respondents expected retail employment to increase in the months ahead. Manufacturing Our survey of manufacturers indicated that District factory activity remained stable in past weeks. Respondents reported little change in shipments, orders, and order backlogs but noted increases in export orders. One-fourth said the conclusion of the Gulf war had led to improved sales, while most of the rest indicated that the war's end had had no effect on their businesses. Most manufacturers noted no change in the costs of their raw materials or in the prices of their finished products. Manufacturers' inventories of raw materials and finished goods and manufacturing employment apparently declined over the survey period. Manufacturers' forecasts for the coming months were quite optimistic. Nearly three-fourths believed shipments and new orders would increase over the next six months; only a few foresaw a decline. Similarly, three-fourths of the respondents expected conditions in their local areas and in the nation to improve in the next six months. Ports Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that exports are generally unchanged in March from February and that imports were generally lower. Compared with a year ago, export activity was higher and import activity was lower. Port representatives expected exports to increase faster than imports throughout the spring and summer. Real Estate A telephone survey of residential home builders and realtors suggested that housing activity rose moderately in recent weeks. Over two-thirds of the builders reported increased customer interest. Most of these builders attributed the heightened interest to greater consumer confidence and to the return of U.S. military personnel. A few builders said that lower interest rates contributed to the rise in shopper interest. Half of the builders reported that housing starts increased in the last month; only a few said that starts declined. Builders noted that almost all homes were built under contract rather than for speculative purposes and that most of these homes were in the middle price range. A majority of realtors indicated that home sales in their local areas increased in the last month, while the remainder noted no change. Realtors commented that sales of owner-occupied homes exceeded sales of new homes. Almost half of the realtors said that middle-priced homes sold most readily, while slightly fewer said that lower-priced homes had been the easiest to sell. Home prices appeared to be stable across all price ranges. Tourism A telephone survey of District hotels, motels, and resorts indicated that tourist activity improved in March from February and was better than in recent springs. Most respondents experienced increased bookings and attributed them to the end of the Gulf war, good weather, and returning customers. A majority of tourist industry representatives expected tourist activity to increase in coming months. Other District contacts confirmed this upbeat picture. Finance A telephone survey of District financial institutions suggested no change in commercial and industrial loans closed compared with recent weeks. Demand for new loans, however, apparently picked up. Half of the lenders reported flat loan demand, but most of the rest reported an increase. Lenders attributed the increase to "bottled-up demand," the resolution of the Gulf war, and prospects for improved economic conditions. Respondents reported that borrowers were primarily larger, established customers rather than smaller, new businesses. Interest rates on loans apparently changed little over the survey period. Most financial institutions reported that the delinquency rate on their loans stayed about the same or decreased in recent weeks. Lenders cautioned, however, that the improvement in delinquency rates may have reflected stronger collection efforts rather than improved economic conditions. Return of Troops The return of military personnel from the Gulf boosted economic activity, especially in areas near military bases. Business leaders indicated that economic activity, particularly sales of homes, cars, and other big-ticket items, in military-dependent areas had not yet returned to pre-conflict levels, but that retail traffic was up sharply. One respondent reported that apartments in his area were fully occupied in contrast to the 30 percent vacancy rate in early March. Other contacts reported a pickup in hiring activity and a drop in unemployment insurance claims. Agriculture Generally favorable weather led to active planting in early April according to District farm analysts. Corn planting was ahead of a year ago in most parts of the District, and vegetable and melon crops were on schedule in the Carolinas. Small grains were in good condition because of favorable temperatures and moisture, but some areas reported powdery mildew in wheat. Peaches and apples were in bloom, and no substantial frost damage was reported.