Overview Although the positive signs observed last month have been reinforced, reports from businesses contacted in April continue to give a mixed picture of the southeastern economy. Retailers and realtors report that the post-war sales pickup has been maintained, but most are concerned that recent improvements are linked more to "catch up" spending and good spring weather rather than to any sustainable improvement in the economy. Sales of homes continued to improve, but builders are skeptical about whether the recovery is sustainable. While manufacturing levels were, on balance, below or barely equal to those seen a year ago, most producers of home furnishings have seen a recent pickup in orders. Freight haulers say that April shipments are up across-the-board, suggesting evidence of a possible turnaround. Meanwhile, reports from bankers mirror those of businesses, indicating a slight increase in credit demand and some easing of credit conditions in recent weeks. Reports on prices indicated declines in several categories of materials. Retail Sales Retailers reported a significant improvement in March and early April sales from earlier this year, although volume remained below or only equaled year-ago levels. However, they attributed much of the improvement to normal seasonal patterns. Several contacts also expressed fear that the sales improvement during recent weeks may be only "catch up" spending without any permanence. Most merchants continue to keep inventories lean, waiting until there are further signs that recent improvements will be sustained. However, bankers indicate that some retailers, acting on sales expectations, are requesting a temporary increase in their lines of credit for planned additions to inventory. Auto dealers reported that the sharp postwar sales pickup has been maintained through March and early April, although units sold were still below year-ago levels. On a brighter note, the tourism and convention businesses have shown signs of a rebound with foreign visitors returning after a war-related reduction. Manufacturing Although construction materials manufacturing has continued to slip, home furnishings producers have seen significant improvements from their depressed orders of recent months. The household fabrics segment of the textile industry has reportedly posted increased orders that have resulted in extended mill operating schedules over the past few weeks. A manufacturer of replacement air conditioners and parts has received several sizable orders as distributors rebuild inventories depleted in recent days. Indicative of a more general turnaround, a packaging manufacturer reports a slight increase in orders recently and has responded by rebuilding inventory levels. Reports from truck and rail transporters give further evidence of an upturn, showing a recent pickup in total shipment volume and noting that industrial chemicals are especially strong. However, this increase was, in part, attributed to stock building because of railroad strike worries. Other producers, however, report continued declining or flat sales and persistent soft orders for March and early April. A telecommunications company reports no letup in its overall business decline and anticipates additional layoffs of a work force already reduced by 20 percent over the past nine months. Steel producers, auto-related manufacturers, apparel, and some apparel fabric producers have also responded to continuing bleak sales with further layoffs and have indicated there are no plans to step up output at this time. Paper, pulp, and linerboard producers also report continuing slow sales and are delaying capital expansions until economic conditions improve. A slowdown is reported in exports of poultry, grain, and coal, although phosphate exports show strength. District banks verify that current production levels in several industries are flat to down. However, bankers report that most manufacturers have dropped their "doomsday" scenarios, and, as a result, have stabilized or slightly increased inventory levels in recent months. Financial Services Business and consumer loan demand is reported by bankers to remain weak, although some observed improvements recently. One banker reported a slight pickup in overall loan demand while another reports that retail business loan demand has improved as a result of retailers' increased sales expectations. Some contacts report easing of credit standards, particularly for small business with good track records, but most feel that tight lending conditions continue to restrict loan growth. Business contacts confirm this result, reporting that a number of large suppliers continue to serve as a 'credit line" for customers by extending accounts receivables maturities and cosigning bank loans for clients. Construction Realtors indicate that the rise in both existing and new home sales reported earlier this year has continued through March and early April. Although builders that were contacted have responded with modest increases in residential building, they remain skeptical about the strength and sustainability of the housing recovery. This skepticism is reflected in reports from building materials suppliers and manufacturers whose sales continue to decline. Wages and Prices Most contacts reported subdued wage increases. However, shortages and wage increases in markets for certain types of workers in oil producing areas and health services are said to continue. Businesses report lower input prices for linerboard, boxes, and newsprint, while steel prices have dropped dramatically in response to the reduced demand from building and auto industries. Natural gas prices have plummeted to a five-year low causing some producers to scale back production and to review exploration plans.