District economic conditions continue to deteriorate. Employment and output are declining in the durables manufacturing sector, while the nondurable sector is relatively stable. Real consumer spending during the holidays was down sharply from a year ago. Total loans outstanding have risen slightly at large District banks. Real estate markets continue to slump. Agricultural and natural resource conditions are mixed. Consumer Spending District retailers report that nominal sales during the 1990 holiday season ranged from slightly higher to 10 percent lower than in the previous year. In addition to consumers' concerns about recession and war, unseasonably mild weather reportedly dampened sales of winter apparel early in the season, while ice storms in some areas hampered sales the week before Christmas. Respondents reported that inventories were near desired levels, however, as most retailers had planned for sluggish sales. When contacts were asked whether more price discounting was used than in previous years, responses were mixed. The outlook for the first quarter of 1991 varied from bleak to optimistic, particularly if the Persian Gulf conflict is resolved quickly. Contacts report new car sales continue to be well below year-earlier levels, except for imported luxury cars, which registered strong December sales as consumers sought to avoid the new federal taxes on expensive and "gas-guzzling" cars. Manufacturing Many producers of durable goods, including firms producing heating and cooling equipment, industrial machinery, electrical wiring, refrigerators and furniture, have cut production recently; many expect additional cuts in the first quarter. The federal government's cancellation of a military jet contract will result in the elimination of 3,000 to 5,000 jobs at one Missouri defense contractor. This follows layoffs of roughly 4,000 workers last year by the same contractor. Most of the region's motor vehicle plants have had intermittent layoffs, although plants making sports/utility vehicles and minivans have scheduled overtime in recent weeks. Several vehicle-related factories have had declining orders, including two large tire plants, which had sizable layoffs. Overall, production of nondurables has been flat; however, food processing activity has expanded. Growth in poultry processing, in particular, has been fueled by export sales and sales of processed convenience dinners. State Government Finance Slowing economic growth in Missouri and Tennessee has caused state government revenues to fall short of projected levels. Both states expect revenues in the current fiscal year to be roughly 2 percent less than originally projected. Both states also have limited spending to avoid a budget deficit. Revenues are expected to show no real growth through 1991. Construction and Real Estate Residential real estate markets across the District continue to slump, although many contacts believe a turnaround will occur by the end of the first quarter. A lack of consumer confidence is cited as the major reason for slow sales, despite recent declines in interest rates and home prices. Recent layoffs in St. Louis are expected to depress that housing market further. Commercial real estate markets, except for distribution warehouse space in Memphis, also are weak. To adjust to the slower pace of residential and commercial construction, many developers and suppliers are broadening product lines. One Memphis contact reported, for example, that major commercial developers have shifted their focus from building office and retail centers to leasing, property management and marketing of services for business owners. Banking and Credit Total loans on the books of 11 of the District's largest banks rose 2 percent from the end of October through year-end, after showing no growth in the two months previous. Real estate and consumer lending grew over the period, while commercial and industrial (C&I) lending continued to shrink. Contacts expect no significant uptick in C&I or commercial real estate lending, at least until the third quarter, because of weak demand and tightened credit standards. Preliminary estimates by many banks indicate improved profit margins by the fourth quarter. Net interest margins were buoyed by declines in interest rates, which lowered funding costs. Agriculture and Natural Resources Heavy rains and melting snow have caused flooding in some areas and raised river levels throughout the District, but barge traffic has not bean disrupted significantly. Southern pine lumber mills report that recent orders and shipments have fallen below year-ago levels and inventories are up. District coal production is running about 4.4 percent ahead of last year. Agricultural contacts report low or falling prices for wheat, soybeans, broilers and hogs, but continued strong returns for beef cattle.