Summary Economic conditions in the West are reported to be softening further. Slower growth is bringing continued moderation in wage and price increases throughout the District. Holiday retail sales were mixed in the West, but, generally, were above low pre-holiday expectations. Manufacturing activity continues to slow across much of the West. Agriculture and resource-related industries in the District have been hit hard by a combination of low prices and weather related difficulties. Construction and real estate activity continues to be hampered by an abundance of vacant office space and difficulty in obtaining financing. Western financial institutions report mixed conditions, but many areas note a weakening in loan demand. Business Sentiment Western business leaders' expectations about future economic growth deteriorated slightly in January. Eighty-one percent now foresee a national recession in the next twelve months, compared with 75 percent in November and 40 percent in September. An increasing number of business leaders see this weak economic growth leading to a lessening of inflationary pressures. Almost half now project lower inflation during the coming year. Respondents were less optimistic about foreign trade, with only 29 percent expecting a pick-up compared to 44 percent an November. Wages and Prices Wage and price increases continue to moderate throughout the Twelfth District. Most retailers reported significant discounting during the holiday season in the face of a softening economy. Abundant grain and feed crops are pushing down prices for many agricultural commodities, like wheat. Prices for citrus fruits, especially navel oranges, and some vegetables have risen significantly as a result of the freeze in California. Wage demands are reported to be moderating a job security has become a more important concern. In Seattle, manufacturing wages are reported up 5 percent from last year, bolstered by gains in aerospace. Retail Trade and Services Retail trade activity is mixed in much of the West. Holiday sales were flat to slightly down from last year. However, according to most reports, this performance was not too disappointing considering the economic climate. Southern California registered weak sales, while retailers in other areas of California reported slightly stronger sales. In Oregon and Washington, sales were flat despite severe weather that slowed holiday activity. Sales were slightly above year-earlier levels in Idaho and Utah, and up a strong 9 percent or more in Hawaii. Most retailers entered the holiday season with low inventories, and report that business plans for 1991 will continue to be conservative. One retailer reports that sales were up sharply in the first week of January. Classified advertising volume continues to shrink for newspapers in California, but not as sharply as in other areas of the country. One report indicated that total classified advertising volume was down 3 percent from a year ago in California. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the West continues to slow. Defense- related aerospace activity remains weak, and commercial aircraft manufacturing is expected to slow. Aluminum and steel markets also are reported to be soft. Manufacturing export volume is reported to have improved slightly, while imports have weakened. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Agriculture is facing difficult conditions as lower prices and weather conditions cloud the outlook. Large rain and feed crops are pushing down prices for many crops. In Idaho, the price of farmland is reported to have fallen in the face of sharply lower prices for wheat. The freeze in California wiped out the Navel Orange crop and damaged other crops and trees. The freeze is expected to reduce California's $17.5 billion total farm revenue by $1 billion. In addition to crop losses, the freeze also caused large layoffs in food processing plants in California's central valley. Continued drought conditions also are reported to be causing major problems for California farmers. Lack of grazing land is reportedly forcing ranchers to liquidate their herds or move them to feedlots. Despite this increase in the beef supply, livestock prices remain high. Agricultural exports continue to expand, but there are concerns that the California freeze will hurt citrus producers' ability to move into the newly opened Japanese market. Forest product industries remain depressed. Weak demand has caused prices for paper, containerboard, and plywood to fall. These lower prices coupled with high log prices have squeezed profits and caused many mills to close in the Northwest. Construction and Real Estate Construction activity in most areas of the West is weak as a result of an abundance of office space in most of the major cities. Continued difficulty in obtaining financing for new construction projects also is blamed for the slowdown in activity. Reports from Los Angeles continue to cite high vacancy rates for downtown office space, and more space is coming on line. Commercial building in Seattle is described as lackluster. There is reported to be a substantial amount of new space yet to be absorbed in Seattle. Roth residential and commercial activity remain relatively solid in Boise and Salt Lake City as well as in Sacramento, Bakersfield, and other parts of California's central valley. Real estate sales and prices remain weak throughout much of the West. In California, sales have stabilized in the past few months, with prices near their year-earlier levels. Most of the residential activity continues to be in the lower-priced end of the market. In Seattle, median home prices peaked in mid-1990 and are reported down 15 percent from that peak. Financial Sector Conditions in Twelfth District financial institutions are mixed, with solid conditions reported in the inter-mountain states and continued softening in coastal areas. Loan demand is reported weak in Southern California, Oregon, and Washington. One report notes that auto loan demand has softened, while another report indicates that consumer credit card balances did not increase as much as usual this holiday season.