Overview Growth in the Tenth District economy has slowed in recent weeks, but is apparently still positive. Farm income prospects have dimmed somewhat while growth in the number of operating drilling rigs has leveled off. A disappointing Christmas season failed to boost sluggish retail sales, prompting both retailers and manufacturers to trim inventories. Mortgage demand and housing starts both continue to fall, despite lower mortgage interest rates. Loan demand at commercial banks continues to drop as well, due mainly to sluggish demand for commercial real estate loans and residential construction loans. Retail Sales Most district retailers report worsening sales over the past three months, accentuated by disappointing results from the Christmas season. Sales during the holiday season were generally flat and often worse than expected, although discounters enjoyed slight gains. Retailers report weak sales in most merchandise categories other than clothing and expect further weakness in the coming months. Most respondents have been trimming inventories and expect to continue this trend. Product prices have leveled off and are expected to remain flat or increase only slightly in the coming months. New auto sales have fallen in most district states over the last month and are expected to be sluggish again this year. Financing is generally available for inventories and for potential buyers, although some dealers report tightening credit standards. Most automobile dealers are trimming inventories. Manufacturing Purchasing agents report stable to slightly higher input prices over the past three months, leaving prices moderately higher than a year ago. Expectations about future prices are mixed, in part due to uncertainty about the Persian Gulf crisis. Materials availability and lead times pose no problems for most manufacturers. Most firms continue to trim inventories. A bright spot in the manufacturing picture is strong exports, thanks both to the weaker U.S. dollar and to healthy economic growth abroad, especially in Europe and South America. One manufacturer of steel pipe and tubes noted that a sharp drop in penetration of the U.S. market by Japan, Europe, and Canada leaves more room for domestic producers. Energy Oil prices declined in December due to abundant supplies of crude oil and expectations of a peaceful settlement in the Gulf crisis. Uncertainty about the outcome of the crisis and its impact on world crude oil supplies continues to moderate gains in district drilling activity. The average number of operating drilling rigs in district states rose from 336 in November to 341 in December, only slightly higher than a year ago. Housing Activity and Finance Housing starts have declined in recent weeks, sinking below year-ago levels in most areas of the district. Most builders expect starts to fall on balance over the course of the year, even though new home sales and prices should generally remain stable. Sales of building materials are down substantially from both three months and a year ago, prompting suppliers to predict 1991 will be a "tough year." Respondents from thrifts report moderate outflows of deposits over the past month and expect little change in deposit flows over the next three months. Mortgage demand has dipped below seasonal norms. Mortgage rates have been falling, and most respondents expect rates to continue to fall slightly over the first quarter of 1991. Banking Most commercial bankers report loan demand decreased last month. In most cases, the decrease reflects lower demand for commercial real estate loans and residential construction loans. Results for commercial, consumer, and home mortgage loans were mixed, while agricultural loan demand increased somewhat. Most bankers report no change in credit standards over the last month. While most respondents have not changed their prime rate or consumer lending rates, they expect to reduce both in the near future. Total deposits increased at most banks last month. Demand deposits were up, and NOW accounts and money market deposit accounts were stable to higher. Changes in small time deposits varied widely, while large certificates of deposits generally fell. Agriculture District farmers and their lenders approach 1991 with caution. The winter wheat crop is in good to excellent condition in most of the district, as extensive crop damage was avoided during the recent period of cold weather. The crop remains vulnerable to winter kill, however, due to low soil moisture and the absence of a protective blanket of snow. A sharp drop in crop prices since mid-1990, a cutback in government payments under the new farm bill, and higher fuel and agricultural chemical prices have lowered prospects for farm income. As a result, spending on new farm equipment fell sharply in the last quarter of 1990, and bankers expect sluggish spending in the year ahead. Dimmer prospects for farm income have also slowed sales of farm real estate in the district. Still, concerns about the health of the national economy and about lower farm incomes have affected spending in district rural communities only slightly. Retail sales in most rural communities remain solid.