Summary District economic activity slowed in December and early January, particularly as auto production fell. A consensus outlook of business economists in the District called for a mild recession nationally to end by the second quarter, followed by a sluggish recovery that is held back by weak industrial production. District retailers indicated that consumer spending over the holiday season was somewhat stronger than the national average. Auto sales and production remained weak in December and early January, and the impact of slowing auto production is beginning to spread to other manufacturers. Outside the auto industry, several capital goods manufacturers report recent weakness in sales and orders. Export growth continued, although several contacts with important exporting sectors expressed concern about continued strength. Construction spending continues on existing projects, while expectations for 1991 activity continue to be weak. Loan demand in the District has softened. Agricultural exports fell sharply in recent months. Outlook for the National Economy Business economists from around the District attending a mid- December conference at the Bank generally anticipated sluggish growth in 1991. The consensus outlook of 25 forecasts showed real GNP rising only 0.4 percent in 1991. The quarterly pattern indicated by the consensus showed real GNP declining in the fourth quarter of l990 and the first quarter of 1991. A slow recovery was expected over the remainder of 1991, as declines in industrial production extended into the second quarter. Citing weakening cash flow in the nonfinancial business and farm sectors, several capital goods producers projected absolute declines in expenditures for their respective product categories (including office and computer equipment). Consumer spending was expected to expand in the second quarter at a slow pace as auto sales make a moderate rebound. In the weeks after the meeting, reports by participants suggested that many revised forecasts downward as new data were released, but little change arose in the expected quarterly pattern of economic activity. Consumer Spending Retail sales activity generally softened through most of the fourth quarter, but picked up toward the end of the holiday season. Most contacts report that consumer spending in the District was still somewhat stronger than the nation on average. Several retailers reported that holiday sales were basically flat (in nominal dollars) with last year, while District sales increased slightly. Some contacts spoke of heavier-than-usual discounting toward the end of the year, which may have boosted some retailers' sales at the expense of earnings. Contacts generally noted increased consumer cost-consciousness and a shift towards practicality. The best sales performances typically were reported by discount retailers. Several contacts reaffirmed the weakness in the Detroit area, although one analyst stated that the warehouse club/discount format performed well in Detroit in December, showing good volume increases. While most contacts reported little change in the mix of sales between credit and cash, many reported rising delinquency rates on utilized credit. Sales expectations for the new year are mixed, and contacts universally cited the Middle East situation as a yet-to-be resolved uncertainty. Most contacts related a belief that the consumer has been postponing discretionary purchases. However, opinions were mixed about the degree to which consumer confidence will return, should a peaceful resolution to the Middle East conflict be reached. Several business analysts in the District stated that the perception of difficulty in the banking industry has also impacted consumer confidence. Retail contacts generally indicated that orders to manufacturers are running about even with those placed at this time last year. Increased financial difficulties and inventory building in several sectors, however, may constrain total order activity in the early part of the year. Auto Industry The auto production slowdown continued in December and into the first weeks of 1991, as industry sales remained weak nationally and consumer confidence remained at recessionary levels. While Big Three automakers attending the Bank's December meeting expect 1991 vehicle sales to be roughly 7 percent lower than in 1990, sales rates (seasonally adjusted) are expected to improve each quarter of the year. Fleet sales are expected to continue to grow in importance, lowering inventory requirements for a given sales level and holding back a production rebound. Vehicle rental and leasing activity are growing more rapidly than sales to individuals. Although several dealers expressed optimism about the prospects of the "nearly-new" car market created by the quicker turnover of auto fleets, auto producers report concern that new car sales and production will be adversely affected. Auto suppliers report being impacted by slower auto production and by volatility in production schedules. Since employees of many suppliers to Big Three automakers do not have the income guarantees won by members of the United Auto Workers, softness in auto-related sectors could curb District personal income and spending growth in the near future. Manufacturing Activity Manufacturing activity has experienced an increasing number of weakening sectors besides the auto industry, while some industries remain healthy. Overall, order book quality seems increasingly subject to the same uncertainty that is slowing consumer spending, with many contacts reporting that capital spending decisions have become contingent on outcomes in the Middle East. A major producer of heavy equipment reported that sales declined sharply in December and early January (from the year-earlier periods), while new orders have fallen off even more dramatically than sales. The slowdown in auto production has begun to impact the previously stable steel industry. A large District steel producer reported that the slowdown contributed to a sharp decline in its operating rate in late December and early January. A major supplier to the electronics industry reported that component sales growth was better than expected in December. This contact expected continued growth in 1991, but at roughly half the rate in recent years. An economist for an electric utility stated that power sales to non-automotive industrial customers in Michigan increased in December. Trade Activity Several District contacts reported that expectations have weakened for export growth continuing at recent rates, although exports still provide some of their strongest markets. Citing slower growth in domestic demand in Canada, much of Western Europe, and parts of Asia, economists with two of the largest exporting firms in the District recently lowered their forecasts for 1991 export growth. Another large District capital goods producer stated that export opportunities are still being developed, and that export orders are holding up reasonably well. However, this contact expressed concern about the potentially adverse impact on sales growth from slowing growth in several European economies as well as political uncertainty in the Soviet Union. Steel imports actually increased in the fourth quarter, although a large District steel producer stated that the increase may reflect, in part, inventory building prior to a possible strike in late January. Citing the crisis in the Middle East, one large District exporting manufacturer recently suspended international travel of its employees, and ordered all US. citizens working abroad to return home. Construction Commercial construction in the District is widely expected to be weak this year, while spending for schools, highways, and other public construction is expected to take up some of the slack. A large District producer of building materials stated that projects underway are being completed, but new projects are well below levels reached at the end of 1989. A cement producer projected a double- digit decline in the firm's shipments in 1991. Cement industry shipments in 1990 (through October) showed that relative strength in the District has disappeared, with shipments growth in the Great Lakes region now running about equal with that for the nation as a whole (on a year-to-date basis). A supplier of materials to home builders in the Chicago area reported that business for many of its customers has slowed dramatically, although sales growth for consumer do-it-yourself projects was holding up well even through the Christmas season. Financial Institutions Several District financial institutions are experiencing weak loan demand from many sectors, although some contacts noted a slight increase in credit card usage last quarter. Several bankers reported continued weak growth in commercial real estate and industrial loans, which was attributed mostly to an unwillingness to borrow. One large bank reported increases in services fees, but basically unchanged lending policy. A savings and loan analyst noted some growth in home mortgage lending when mortgage rates were below 9.5 percent, but most of that demand is for refinancing. One large bank's credit card volume increased in the fourth quarter, with half of the gain due to increased usage by existing accounts. This lender also reported no increase in consumer delinquency rates (through November), although delinquency in home mortgage lending had increased slightly. Agriculture Corn and soybean exports have fallen off sharply in recent months. From January through August of 1990, the combined U.S. export tonnage of corn and soybeans held nearly 13 percent above the year- earlier level. But from September through December, the combined export tonnage was off a third from the year-earlier pace and the lowest for that period in at least 16 years. Several factors have contributed to the sharper-than-expected downturn, including the emerging trade problems facing the USSR, bumper harvests elsewhere in the world, and various disruptions related to the Mideast situation. Most analysts believe that the export pace will pickup in the months ahead but remain short of the year-earlier level.