Overview A large majority of firms contacted around year end reported marginally lower or flat production, sales, or employment compared to late fall and a year ago. Retailers, with few exceptions, reported that real holiday sales fell below or only equaled last year's levels. While domestic sales are reported to be down by many contacts in diverse industries, several businesses report growing international sales. Continued widespread contraction in construction is reported to be causing construction-related manufacturing activity to weaken further. Banking contacts supported these interpretations with information that consumer loan demand and business capital spending are softening. Contacts report that the California freeze is raising fruit and vegetable prices, while an unseasonably warm winter in other areas has led to falling prices for natural gas. Retail Sales Retailers said that real sales had turned out weak compared to a year earlier, though most had expected this to happen. Contacts say that they planned inventory carefully, promoted and discounted items early, and finally moved remaining merchandise with further price cuts during the week before Christmas; that helped trigger an unusually large late sales surge. It appears that sales activity was not as poor in the western part of the District. Although sales of most big ticket items were reported to be weak everywhere, luxury items received a temporary boost in December from the special tax slated to begin in 1991. Florida restaurateurs and luxury resort operators report reduced business entertainment spending, and a "no frills" hotel franchiser says that business travelers in the Southeast are "trading down." Tourism, overall, is still strong but there are reports of softening domestic leisure travel to Florida. According to industry contacts, convention attendance in Atlanta, New Orleans, and Orlando has been record-setting. Manufacturing Producers in most industries report declining or flat domestic sales while reports on the strength of exports vary. Contacts reporting strong exports but flat domestic sales include a telecommunications components manufacturer in Atlanta, linerboard and pulp manufacturers with plants across the Southeast, a major regional aluminum can sheet producer, and a few makers of original equipment auto parts. Mobile home manufacturers in Florida, Georgia, and Mississippi report new or expected contracts to make homes for Russian immigrants in Israel, helping to offset weak domestic sales. Manufacturers who report weak domestic sales that are not being offset by growing exports include southern pine lumber producers for whom Iraq represented a major market before its August invasion of Kuwait. Lumber sales to LDCs in the Caribbean and Africa also are reported to be down because of the higher energy costs they are facing. A Georgia producer of carpets says that Saudi Arabia, the largest international market for the state's carpets, has stopped taking delivery and that insurance costs on shipments to the Middle East have become prohibitively high. A major supplier of inorganic industrial chemicals to domestic manufacturers of many industrial and consumer products reports significantly lower sales compared to a year ago. A plumbing fixture supplier serving Georgia and Tennessee and a Florida wall coatings manufacturer report lower sales in their domestic-only markets. In contrast, pen and pencil and cellular phone companies report healthy domestic and foreign sales. Financial Services Bankers indicate that business and consumer loan demand was weak in December compared to a year ago and attribute the weakness to the slackening economy and uncertainties associated with the Middle East crisis. Loan officers say that capital spending is shrinking or being delayed in several industries. Direct reports from businesses such as a hotel franchiser, a computer software firm, and a producer of office supplies confirm this information. Industrial engineering, accounting, and management consulting firms report a decline in their businesses due to reduced capital spending by clients. However, one loan officer reported continued strength in loan demand by the health industry, and a Miami banker notes growing demand from firms exporting to South America. Construction Most segments of construction activity across the region were down sharply at year-end from levels a year earlier and in previous months of 1990. In contrast to previous years, there was no initiation or acceleration of projects related to tax laws. Parts of Louisiana and Mississippi are reported to have more building activity than last year at this time, but these areas are expanding from depressed levels. A large building materials supplier, who has already cut his payroll by 15 percent, says that he is experiencing collection problems from hard-pressed contractors and that the remodeling business is flat. A home improvement company in Georgia also reports that December and early-January sales are down from preceding months. Wages and Prices A major Florida contractor cites a decline in prices of concrete and construction tools in response to construction's weakness. South Florida citrus and vegetable growers are reported to be temporarily reaping much higher prices as a consequence of the December freeze affecting Southern California crops. Trucking company contacts, a mobile home manufacturer, and a regional supplier of linens say their profits are falling because they are unable to pass on increased fuel costs. According to an industry contact, natural gas prices fell significantly in January because of unseasonably warm weather and excess supplies.