Summary The worst of the contraction in real GNP and industrial production occurred last quarter, according to a panel of 23 Fourth District economists. Labor markets in Ohio have held up better than for the nation in recent months, but the unemployment rate is expected to rise more rapidly in the next few months. Manufacturing in the Fourth District has also fared better than in the nation, but conditions in the automotive, capital goods, and steel industries have deteriorated in recent weeks. Most retailers report that sales in late December and early January picked up from the weak performances in October and November. Lower interest rates have not had a visible effect on loan demand, which remains weak. The National Economy All but two of a group of 23 economists with the Fourth District Roundtable believe that the worst of the contraction in real GNP and industrial production occurred last quarter. They estimate that real GNP declined at about a 2.7 percent annual rate in 1990:IVQ, and will decline at rates of 1.7 percent and 0.2 percent in the first and second quarters of this year. Growth in real GNP is expected to rebound at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the second half of 1992 and a 3 percent rate in the first half of 1991. The forecasts assume no outbreak of war in the Middle East. The panel also believes that the worst of the latest inflation bulge was in 1990:IVQ, when overall prices rose at an estimated 4.9 percent rate. Prices are expected to increase by about a 3.3 percent annual rate between 1991:IIIQ and 1992: IIQ. The Regional Economy Labor market conditions in the District have remained better than in the nation. Nonfarm employment in Ohio inched up in December, and was slightly higher than a year earlier. The unemployment rate rose 0.3 percent in December but averaged 5.7 percent in the latest three months. Some labor market officials believe, however, that the unemployment rate will rise more rapidly toward the national average in the next few months, especially because of further layoffs in the automotive and steel industries. Manufacturing Output and employment have been stronger in the District than in the nation, but deterioration occurred in key industries during December, resulting in sizable layoffs in mid- and late January especially in the automotive industry. Auto production this quarter, however, is expected to increase by about 5 percent to 10 percent from the weak fourth quarter, according to several auto analysts. A similar increase in production is expected for next quarter, assuming revival in consumer confidence if the instability in the Persian Gulf is resolved. Some capital-goods producers have marked down their forecasts of output for this year because of a weaker-than-expected economy. Nevertheless, a common view is that capital spending will hold up better than it did in past periods of business weakness. A machine tool builder reports that orders have been declining in each of the last three months, but the declines have been far less than in previous episodes of business slowdown. Heavy-duty truck business sagged unexpectedly in November and apparently in December, following a brief revival through mid-autumn when orders were pulled forward into 1990 because of new environmental regulations effective in 1991. Steel producers report a sharp deterioration in orders and operations in recent weeks. The drastic cutback in auto output last month and higher-than-expected volume in steel imports last quarter cut the operating rate in the domestic steel industry to about 70 percent of capacity late last month from an 84 percent rate in November. Operations are expected to average in the low 70s this quarter. A defense contractor noted substantial pickup in the last few months for special military goods destined for the Middle East. They anticipate, however, no reversal in the decline of defense spending, and have not experienced a revival in defense orders. Consumer Spending Most retailers report that sales in late December and early January improved from a weak October and November, but sales were widely mixed among retailers. Consequently, inventories for some retailers are in better balance now than before the Christmas season, while a little higher than desired for others. Retailers see little prospect that sales will improve much, at least until the Gulf situation is resolved. Improved real income, especially because of lower gasoline prices, is a positive sign for near-term sales, but most retailers expect consumer spending will be lackluster through midyear. New car dealers in the District report that sales have weakened sharply for this time of year, but that inventories of new cars are lower than a year ago. Dealers have no trouble obtaining financing for inventory, but report that consumers are finding financing more difficult than a few months ago. Dealers of domestic nameplates are not ordering for additional inventories, but Honda and Toyota dealers apparently are adding to inventories in anticipation of higher sales in the spring. Financial Developments Latest interest rate declines have had no visible effect on demand for credit by consumers or businesses. Lenders assert that rising concerns over employment and uncertainty about the Persian Gulf situation are constraints on consumer demand. Rates on conventional 30-year fixed-rate mortgages in the Cleveland area average about 9.5 percent, with some lenders offering mortgages as low as 9.0 percent, but without much consumer response. Builders of new homes claim that construction is off more than usual for this time of year, and a major developer cancelled plans for a shopping mall because of the uncertain economy and increased difficulties in funding from his usual sources of credit. A reasonably well-capitalized bank with a large portfolio of real estate loans is shifting away from commercial loans toward consumer loans. Some other well-capitalized banks still report that they have an ample supply of credit available to qualified borrowers, but loan demand remains weak.