Summary The Eighth District economy has continued to grow moderately. Widespread employment growth has resulted in a steady reduction in the region's unemployment rates, and exports continue to stimulate manufacturing activity and employment. Consumer spending has accelerated in recent months. Construction activity has picked up, but remains weaker than a year earlier. Bank lending has been relatively weak. The outlook for the farm sector is optimistic. Employment District nonagricultural employment rose at a strong 7.6 percent annual rate in the three months ending February, outpacing the nation's 4.1 percent rate. All major divisions of the regional economy, except for mining, generated new jobs. The wholesale and retail trade and the construction sectors grew most rapidly. Both residential and nonresidential construction activity increased slightly in recent months. Residential building, however, remains below its year-ago levels the value of residential construction contracts issued in the three months ending February was down 10.2 percent from a year earlier. Construction of a $1.2 billion-dollar breakfast-cereal plant in Memphis is expected to boost area construction employment by 2,500 over the next three years. Regional manufacturing employment grew at a 4.9 percent rate in the November-February period, despite a alight decline in Tennessee. Much of the growth was concentrated in the production of electrical equipment, fabricated metals and transportation equipment. Growing export demand is responsible for the increased production of electric motors, appliances, consumer power tools and fabricated metals, with some plants running at full capacity. In the production of transportation equipment, growth stems from increased auto parts production in Arkansas and Kentucky and the expansion of auto assembly, which is due to better-than-expected car sales. Exports of processed food products, including processed poultry and canned goods, have contributed to job growth in Arkansas. Meanwhile, after steady expansion last year, textile and apparel production is slowing as employment fell slightly in recent months. Some textile and apparel plants are operating at full capacity, however, and several apparel makers are expanding their productive capacity. Consumer Spending Reports indicate that District consumer spending has picked up in recent months. Retail sales in Arkansas grew at a 5 percent annual rate in the first quarter. Arkansas' sales were concentrated in incentive-induced auto sales while other sales, particularly those of clothing and in restaurants, continued to be quite sluggish. Sales in Kentucky and Tennessee also have accelerated, particularly for home appliances and furniture. Contacts report that the prices of some building materials, including plastic pipe and wiring, have increased rapidly in Louisville. Banking Total loans at weekly reporting District banks grew at a 5.9 percent annual rate for the first quarter, down from 13.2 percent for the same period last year. Commercial loans grew at a 15.5 percent rate, similar to their growth in the first quarter of 1987. Both consumer and real estate lending were considerably weaker than a year earlier. On April 19, two of the largest banking companies in the District announced a plan to merge, which would create the largest banking company in the Eighth District with assets of $11.6 billion. Agriculture The outlook for the District's farm sector is cautiously optimistic. The price of soybeans, the District's leading crop in total sales, is at its highest level in many years. Because of the high prices, local sources have reported some imports of soybean products from South America. Despite higher prices, little expansion of soybean acreage is planned because farmers are reluctant to remove acres from the government's corn program. Cotton and rice acreage, however, is expected to increase by over 15 percent because of higher prices. Farmland values in 1987 rose in all District states except Kentucky where they fell by 1 percent. Farmers have made early progress in planting because of favorable weather; farmers in Kentucky and Tennessee, however, are worried about possible drought. The District's wheat crop is good-to-excellent condition after a relatively mild winter. Cattle producers continue to earn profits while pork and poultry producers are experiencing lower prices.