Continued moderate growth of the nation's economy is again confirmed by reports from the Federal Reserve Districts. Manufacturing sector activity remains strong, with export growth a major contributor. Recent retail sales growth generally has been modest. Housing activity in most Districts has shown some recent improvement, but remains below that of a year earlier. Nonresidential construction activity is mixed. Conditions appear to be improving in resource industries, including energy where there is some pickup in oil drilling activity. Farm sector conditions are also continuing to improve. Generally stronger loan demand is reported at banks in a number of Districts. Consumer Spending Recent improvement in retail sales is best described as generally modest, with this year's early Easter affecting comparisons with a year earlier. Several individual District reports use words like sluggish, slow, and modest in describing recent sales growth (New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Minneapolis). Somewhat greater strength is suggested by reports from Richmond, St. Louis, and Boston. Where specific lines of goods are mentioned, apparel sales are generally described as weak, while strength in sales of appliances and home furnishings varies from region to region. General merchandise and department store sales appear to be faring better than sales at specialty stores. Retail inventories are being closely monitored, with aggressive markdowns reported in several Districts in order to keep inventories under control. Several Districts note strong sales for domestically produced new cars, including light trucks and minivans. Inventories of new cars were generally described as satisfactory to tight. Manufacturing Manufacturing sector activity remains strong. The strength appears to be generally broad-based, with export growth often cited as a major contributor. Boston, Philadelphia, and Richmond note general strength in both shipments and orders. Chicago remarks on the reopening of export markets for heavy trucks. Atlanta reports apparel exports are growing and textile mills are running at or near capacity. St. Louis and Dallas, however, note some slowing in textile and apparel production. Chicago and Cleveland report continuing strength in heavy industries such as steel and machine tools. Chicago reports strength in steel mill orders into the third quarter. Steel fabricators have orders backlogged into the third quarter, and service center business is also strong. Prices are up for most types of steel, with some types in short supply. Manufacturers' purchasing agents in both the Chicago and Kansas City Districts are seeing a longer delay in deliveries of goods ordered. Respondents are also concerned about higher materials prices, especially for steel, paper, plastics, and aluminum. Construction Housing sector activity in most Districts has shown some recent improvement, but remains below levels of a year earlier. Nonresidential building activity is mixed. According to the Atlanta Bank, the decline in nonresidential construction activity in the southeast is slowing. Chicago reports modestly higher nonresidential building activity and expects a higher level of industrial construction this year. The pace of office leasing has improved in the New York District and considerable hotel construction is scheduled or underway in New York City. Overall construction activity in the Dallas District continues to decline with little evidence of recovery in the near future. Resource Industries Conditions appear to be improving in resource industries, including the energy sector. San Francisco, Minneapolis, and Kansas City all report some pickup in oil drilling activity, but Kansas City notes further improvement may be limited by uncertainty about oil supplies and prices. Dallas notes a sharp rebound in oil, drilling, concentrated in Texas where the rig count increased for the first time in six months; further gains are expected. Forest products companies and copper mining in the San Francisco District are benefiting from strong prices and improved cost structures. Minneapolis reports its important forest products industry is currently running at capacity. Agriculture Conditions in the farm sector generally continue to improve. Farm incomes. are expected to be relatively high again this year but not as high as in 1987, due primarily to smaller government payments and smaller returns to the livestock sector. Farmland values are generally rising in most areas and farm financial conditions appear to be strengthening. Dallas reports the number of farmers and ranchers leaving agriculture is slowing considerably. Cotton acreage planted is expected to increase substantially in the Atlanta and St. Louis Districts, Dry conditions are of some concern in several states, with water shortages of increasing concern in the San Francisco District where livestock producers are already suffering and crop irrigation may be reduced this summer. Banking A number of Districts report stronger loan demand. Relatively strong loan demand in the Cleveland District is concentrated in business lending, with smaller gains in consumer installment lending. Consumer lending growth is mentioned by several Districts, with Richmond and Philadelphia noting some strength in the demand for home equity loans. San Francisco, however, reports overall loan demand appears about unchanged. Also, Dallas says loans in that District are generally still in a slide, with business loans declining most. Dallas also notes, though, that the rates of decline in loans at large banks slowed markedly in the first quarter compared with the last half of 1987.