Summary Business activity has continued to expand in the District. Employment growth in the year through February was about even with the nation, apart from sizable cuts at Michigan auto and parts plants and in related manufacturing industries. Chicago purchasing managers reported further increases in output and orders through March, accompanied by longer delays in deliveries of goods ordered and widespread price increases. However, a large diversified manufacturer reported that increases in prices paid for its inputs recently have been less widespread. Contacts see strength in orders, production, and shipments across a range of manufacturing industries. Firms in the District continue to gain from the fall in the dollar since early 1985, both in competition with imports and in export markets. Although some companies in this region face loss of business due to military spending cuts, defense procurement is more heavily concentrated in other regions. Employment cuts aimed at increasing efficiency continue to be reported. Farmland values in the District rose further in the first quarter. Motor Vehicles With auto inventories back in line with sales, following production cuts and a sales upturn in the first quarter, domestic car manufacturers plan to boost second and third quarter production above a year earlier. Truck sales continue robust, and second shifts are being added at two pickup truck assembly plants in the District. A maker of medium and heavy trucks has raised its sales forecast for the year. Export markets for heavy trucks are reopening. Auto makers are predicting total motor vehicle sales this year only slightly below the 1987 pace. Steel Order books at steel mills in the District are full for the second quarter, and the third quarter is being booked. Small steel users report an inability to get firm price quotes and delivery dates. The stronger-than-expected auto market has improved the outlook for shipments of steel this year to motor vehicle manufacturers. Demand for structural steel is very strong, reflecting in part the upturn in construction work on factories. Japanese auto and parts plants under construction in the U.S. are reported being pushed toward rapid completion. Investments in paper plants, heavy users of steel, are increasing. Steel fabricators are backlogged into the third quarter and in rare instances the fourth quarter. Buying of steel by equipment makers has strengthened further. Steel service center business continues strong. Inventories are thought to have been rebuilt to desired levels at some service center customers whose stocks were low. Machinery Demand has strengthened for numerous types of machinery. A supplier of components to equipment manufacturers reports stronger demand across a range of industries. Capital spending is described as "booming." Export orders continue strong. A large machine tool maker reports very favorable sales prospects, helped by the lower dollar which has contributed to reduced import penetration. Orders for construction equipment have risen substantially. Buying of food industry machinery is said to be doing well, and special industry machinery is up moderately. Sales of farm equipment this year have been sharply above the depressed year-earlier pace. Construction Residential construction contracts (in square feet) and shipments of building materials, concrete, cement, and gypsum board, in the first two months of 1988 were well below a year earlier in the five District states. More normal weather and resulting construction delays, after last year's exceptionally mild winter, may have accounted for a large portion of the decline. However, the decline may also be a result of many desired purchases of new or upgraded homes having been completed in recent years; the small number of listings of existing homes with Chicago-area real estate brokers is viewed as evidence of this. Mortgage interest rates have been relatively favorable; fixed-rate 30-year loans were offered in the first quarter at interest rates as low as 9.5 percent (plus 3 points), though they have since generally risen to 10 percent or higher. First-year interest rates on adjustable-rate loans are also edging up in the Chicago area, from around 7 percent to 7.25 percent. Nonresidential building contracts in the District states were modestly higher in total reflecting increases in Indiana and Wisconsin. Industrial construction will be higher this year, including work on steel mills in Indiana, paper plants in Wisconsin, and warehouse facilities around Chicago. Public works projects, large and small, are also expected to be strong. Prices of some construction materials have fallen reflecting slower markets, overall, and ample capacity. Consumer Spending Retailers in the District reported mixed results for February and March, attributed to weather and the early Easter. A survey of 243 stores in Illinois and northern Indiana showed sales in February 2 percent below a year earlier. However, sales in February 1987 were strong, reflecting the warm weather. Retail inventories are viewed as in good shape. Credit delinquencies have been falling. Agriculture Our latest survey of agricultural banks shows that farmland values rose further in the first quarter. District land values, on average, were 3.5 percent higher at the end of March than at the end of 1987, and 11.5 percent above a year earlier. The largest increase was in Iowa, where farmland values averaged 19 percent higher than in March 1987. Little or no increase was reported for Michigan and Wisconsin land values over the past year. Farmers in the District plan to increase planted acreage this year by 3 percent for corn and 2 percent for soybeans. Spring field work in most areas of the District is behind the accelerated pace of the past two years, but ahead of normal.