Overview The District economy made modest gains in March and prices rose further. Retail sales appeared to increase at a somewhat faster pace than in previous months, although big ticket items were steady. As compared with our previous survey, a slightly smaller proportion of retailers reported increases in the prices of their purchased products and of the items they sell. Most manufacturing indicators were higher in March, but shipments were steady to lower in early April. Prices of manufactured goods and materials rose in March. Housing activity remains relatively strong. Reports of seaport activity indicated that exports grew faster than imports in March, although both rose. Tourism was strong in the winter compared to a year ago and is expected to remain robust throughout the spring and summer. The agricultural and financial sectors were little changed, although each demonstrated some signs of strength. Consumer Spending District retailers responding to our regular survey reported somewhat higher sales in mid-April compared to March, with half indicating higher sales and 30 percent indicating lower sales. About half said their sales of big ticket items were unchanged while the remainder was split evenly between those reporting higher sales and those reporting lower sales. The majority of respondents expect their sales to increase in the next six months. Retailers continue to report price increases, although there was some hint of abatement in inflation in their reports for March. About one-third of our retail respondents increased their prices while 63 percent reported no change. In the previous survey, about 40 percent had reported increases while about half indicated no change. Moreover, 43 percent indicated that the prices of items they purchased had risen, compared with over half in the previous survey. Forty-four percent of our respondents expect to raise the prices they charge sometime in the next six months. The remainder expect to make no changes. Manufacturing Sizeable increases in March shipments compared to February levels were indicated by respondents to our regular survey. Other manufacturing indicators rose modestly. More manufacturers reported increases than reported decreases in new orders, the backlog of orders, and material and finished goods inventories. Employment and the length of the workweek also reportedly increased slightly in March. When respondents compared manufacturing activity in the first half of April to late March, they reported that the more recent period was not as strong. For the first half of April, more manufacturers reported decreases in shipments than reported increases. Likewise, new orders and the backlog of orders were weaker over this period than in March. The prices of raw materials and finished products rose further in recent weeks according to respondents. Sixty-eight percent reported they paid higher prices for raw materials in March and about one- fourth said they raised the prices of their finished products over the period. Three-fourths of the respondents look for further increases in the price of raw materials over the next six months. Most manufacturers expect their business activity to increase in the next six months. Half of the respondents believe their shipments will rise during the spring and summer, as compared with 15 percent who expect declines. Increases are also expected in new orders. The majority of manufacturers plan to keep their inventories at current levels in the next six months. Ports Reports received from the three major District ports, the Port of Hampton Roads (Norfolk), the Port of Charleston, and the Port of Baltimore, noted general increases in import and export activity for the month of March. Import shipments were higher at Hampton Roads and at Charleston but were reported unchanged at Baltimore. All ports indicated an upturn in export volume in recent weeks. When compared to a year ago, recent growth in export activity was outpacing that of imports. Tourism A telephone survey of resorts and hotels throughout the District indicated strong tourist activity. The majority of the respondents said that the winter convention season was good in their areas, and they expect stronger activity this spring compared with previous years. Summer bookings are running well ahead of last year. Only one-fourth of respondents expect the decline in the exchange value of the dollar to boost tourism this summer. Housing A special survey of District builders and realtors indicated an upturn in activity in the District's housing sector. Realtors reported that sales of single-family homes rose in March and remained strong through early April. Starts of single-family homes were also up in the period. Respondents noted continued strong construction and sales activity in the homes priced in the higher end of the market. A majority of respondents expect mortgage rates to remain at current levels or to decrease slightly over the next six months. Agriculture Preliminary results from a recent survey of District agricultural bankers showed that farm financial conditions appeared to be strengthening somewhat but were not yet robust. Farmland prices were relatively stable in the first three months of this year, and 45 percent or the rural bankers expect farmland prices in their areas to rise over the next three months. None expect land prices to fall. Farm loan demand is higher compared to our survey three months ago, but 20 percent of the bankers still characterize demand at their institutions as below normal, while only four percent reported it as above normal. Funds are reported to be readily available at almost 90 percent of the responding institutions, and only four percent indicated that loans were refused due to shortages of funds. Interest rates were reported to be lower across all agricultural loan categories, but bankers anticipate farm loan demand will be generally weaker in the coming three months. Financial The reports of executives of commercial banks and thrift institutions indicated little if any change in banking activity except in consumer loans. These loans, including home equity loans, rose at a faster pace in recent weeks, although at least some of the increase may have been due to seasonal factors. On balance, the reports indicated that commercial loans and deposits were about flat to up slightly.