Overview The Fifth District economy grew, on balance, but this growth continued to be moderate and uneven across sectors. Hot, dry weather boosted tourism and electric power demand but badly damaged agriculture. Retail spending was somewhat higher, while manufacturing was flat. Moderate growth was seen in bank lending, state revenues, and residential real estate activity. Commercial real estate remained mostly sluggish. Port activity was lower, and the shellfish industry continued to face serious supply constraints. Consumer Spending Our mail survey of retailers indicated rising sales, wages, and prices but declining shopper traffic and employment in late June/early July. Retailers expected shopper traffic and sales to increase in the next six months but anticipated little change in employment. Manufacturing District manufacturers surveyed saw little change in most indicators, except for higher raw materials prices. Weak product demand was cited as the most important industry problem. Respondents expected higher shipments, new orders, and raw materials prices in the next six months but lower employment. Ports Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated lower imports and exports in June, compared with May and with a year ago. All three ports expected exports to increase faster than imports during the next six months. Tourism Since early June, activity at District hotels, motels, and resorts was higher than in May or a year ago; good weather and package deals were cited as causes. Most respondents were booked to capacity over the Fourth of July weekend and expected activity to improve in the next six months. Financing District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that credit conditions improved slightly during the last six weeks. Commercial, consumer, and residential mortgage loan demands were reported marginally higher. Refinancing activity rose while mortgage originations were steady. Commercial, consumer, and residential mortgage loan rates all fell slightly. State Revenues State tax analysts reported that revenue growth seemed to imply real economic growth rates of 2.5 to 3.5 percent in Virginia and North Carolina, 2 percent in West Virginia and Maryland, and 1 percent in South Carolina. Collections implied continued weakness in the District of Columbia economy, with sales and property taxes remaining sluggish. Electric Power Hot weather caused especially high District electric power demand, according to power company analysts. Residential demand was up significantly, while commercial and industrial demands were steady. With only one exception, electric utilities had sufficient capacity to meet demand, though most were purchasing power from cheaper sources. The increased demand was expected to be temporary. Residential Real Estate Real estate analysts and homebuilders surveyed by telephone reported that the residential market strengthened modestly in most areas during the past six weeks, though activity decreased slightly in Virginia and the District of Columbia. In Charleston, South Carolina, the lower-end market weakened substantially due to the scheduled closing of the naval base, but home sales remained strong in the area's resort/retirement market. Home prices and starts remained mostly steady during the past six weeks. Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate activity remained sluggish in most areas of the District during the past six weeks but continued to improve in the Charlotte and Raleigh areas. Many analysts throughout the Fifth District reported a rapidly shrinking supply of large blocks of office space. Much anchored shopping center construction was underway, though some landlords were having difficulty leasing existing space. Leasing activity was relatively flat in the industrial market in most areas. Fisheries Fishery analysts contacted by telephone indicated that District activity continued to decline. Seafood demand remained strong, but supply shortages were forcing District wholesalers to buy elsewhere. The crab harvest remained steady in Maryland in 1993 but was expected to drop about 30 percent in Virginia. The 1993 shrimp harvest in North Carolina was expected to be two-thirds of last year's total. Supply constraints had also afflicted scallop markets; scallop prices nearly doubled in the past year. Clam harvests remained steady, and the striped bass industry continued to recover. Agriculture Agricultural analysts and bankers reported drought and near-drought conditions and above-normal temperatures in most of the District. Corn, sorghum, tobacco, and soybean crops were mostly rated in poor condition, and yields were expected to be low. Bankers in some areas warned that their farm customers might face financial difficulties this fall because of bad harvests.