Most Federal Reserve Districts reported that economic activity continued to expand slowly to moderately in June and the first half of July. Flooding inflicted considerable damage in parts of the Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City and Minneapolis Districts, but the effects of flooding were said to be highly concentrated and were not seen to threaten overall economic expansion in any District. Single- family home construction continued as a source of strength for many areas of the country. Retail sales grew across most Districts although the rate of increase varied widely. Auto sales rose in many areas of the country. Price pressures in the markets for materials and finished products were reported to be mixed. Manufacturing Manufacturing output growth was described as generally sluggish in most Districts although conditions varied. Most Districts said that manufacturers have not increased employment and do not plan to for the remainder of the year. Several Districts noted weak sales to Europe, but strong exports to developing countries. The Cleveland District reported strong demand for steel and heavy truck components, but softening orders in several other industries. Respondents in the Chicago District cited a modest slowdown in industrial expansion, although auto and heavy truck production remained high. The Atlanta and Dallas Districts noted modest growth in overall output, but found strong growth among sectors tied to residential construction. Rates of expansion for manufacturing output in the Philadelphia and Richmond Districts were unchanged. Growth in Boston and Minneapolis was generally considered sluggish. The San Francisco District reported weakness in aerospace and defense-related industries, and strength in textiles and apparel and in computer-related industries located outside of Silicon Valley. Agriculture Agricultural conditions were said to be generally favorable, although flooding and drought have destroyed crops in several Districts. Overall, agricultural conditions were seen as favorable in the Dallas and San Francisco Districts. Kansas City and St. Louis reported that, in areas not affected by wet weather and flooding, crops were mostly in good condition and farmers were benefiting from higher grain prices. Kansas City also noted that a large wheat crop was expected and many farmers anticipated strong earnings. In the Minneapolis District, above-normal precipitation has been a boon to cattle raisers, and pasture and range conditions in the Dakotas and Montana were said to be the best in many years. Several Districts reported too much rain, too little rain, or both. Crop prospects are uncertain in many of these areas and will be determined by conditions between now and the frost. Atlanta, St. Louis and Richmond reported that hot dry weather has damaged crops in their Districts. High temperatures and drought have weakened rangeland and pastures in the Dallas District. Heavy rains and flooding ruined crops in portions of the Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis and Kansas City Districts. The Minneapolis and Kansas City Districts noted that corn and soybean crops were particularly hard hit by heavy rains and flooding. Minneapolis reported that unseasonably cool weather slowed crop development across the District. Chicago also reported that crops have been slow to develop. The Richmond and San Francisco Districts said seafood production has declined. Retail Trade and Services Retail sales were reported to have increased somewhat in most Districts, although Atlanta, Cleveland, New York, and Philadelphia reported that sales weakened slightly in July. Overall sales strengthened in the last month in Kansas City and Minneapolis, but both the Minneapolis and Chicago Districts noted slow sales in flooded areas. Apparel demand was reported to be higher in the Atlanta, Chicago, New York, and Philadelphia Districts and weak or sluggish in the Cleveland, Dallas and Kansas City Districts. Atlanta, Cleveland, Dallas and Kansas City all reported increased auto sales. Philadelphia reported that, while growth of auto sales slowed somewhat in July, sales were expected to be above last summer's rate. Retail and auto sales were said to be mixed in the San Francisco District. In Atlanta, Richmond, San Francisco, and portions of the Minneapolis District, tourism was strong and the New York District reported minor gains in tourism. Real Estate and Construction Residential construction and real estate activity remained strong in most Districts. Minneapolis reported that residential and commercial construction was perhaps the strongest component in the region's economy. Housing activity continued to increase in the Chicago District, but growth was thought to have slowed somewhat. San Francisco reported strong housing markets for most of the District, although southern California and western Washington were exceptions. Commercial real estate activity remained sluggish or weak in most areas of the Atlanta, Dallas and Richmond Districts. Natural Resources The Dallas, Kansas City and Atlanta Districts reported that higher natural gas prices have led to increased drilling, and a rise in activity for related service companies. Although drilling is generally expected to continue its upturn, Dallas respondents said that lower oil prices have clouded the drilling outlook for the second half of the year. In the San Francisco District, recent Alaskan oil discoveries were said to have improved the prospects for economic activity. Mineral mining activity was mixed. The San Francisco District noted weaker mining activity in Utah, Idaho and Alaska, while iron output increased slightly in Minneapolis. Timber and logging activity was also cited as weakening in the San Francisco District. Banking Many Districts reported that business loan demand was unchanged, and that demand for mortgage refinancing was strong. According to respondents in the New York District, commercial and industrial loan demand continued to rise. Bankers in the Philadelphia District indicated that lending was generally unchanged although borrowing increased slightly among middle market companies. The Atlanta and St. Louis Districts noted recent strength in auto loans. The Cleveland District reported that business loans had softened and that consumer loans had leveled off, after a surge last spring. In the Kansas City District, consumer loans have increased, while business loans were flat to slightly up. Dallas said that overall loan demand had declined. Respondents in the San Francisco District said that banking conditions in California continued to improve. Prices District reports suggested that price pressures were mixed. The San Francisco and Richmond Districts saw some increased prices for building materials and other raw materials. New York and Minneapolis Districts reported that lumber prices have declined. Manufacturing input prices were stable to slightly higher in Kansas City. Chicago mentioned higher prices for auto parts. Boston reported that auto parts suppliers are under much pressure to freeze or reduce prices, and that they will try to offset higher material prices with productivity gains. Retail prices were reported to be very competitive in New York. Chicago, Cleveland, and Dallas mentioned that several retailers have lowered their prices. Kansas City District retailers said they were holding prices steady. The Richmond District reported that retail prices were rising. Atlanta and Minneapolis noted stable price levels. Higher prices were reported for natural gas, but lower prices for oil. Several Districts reported higher agricultural prices, particularly in areas affected by flooding.