Overview According to Sixth District contacts, the Southeast economy grew at a modest pace in June and early July. Consumer spending gains were again reported by most retailers, but momentum has slowed. Realtors and residential builders reported healthy sales and building activity, although multifamily and commercial real estate markets remain sluggish. Manufacturers generally experienced increased production and orders in June, with lumber, furniture, and home textile producers noting increases because of strong residential construction. However, their expectations about fixture production are less optimistic than they were earlier this year. According to bankers, commercial loan demand remains flat, but consumer lending, especially for automobiles and home refinancing, has increased in most areas. There were no reports of increasing wage or price pressures. Consumer Spending Retailers throughout the District reported chat an upward sales trend continues; however, consumer spending growth has slowed in recent weeks. Smaller retail stores consistently had weaker sales than major retailers. Sales gains were most prominent in apparel, home improvement products, big ticket consumer durables, and autos. Auto sales did particularly well in June and mid-July, and the majority of dealers expect the recent trend to continue through the end of the summer. Most contacts in the hospitality industry expect further improvement in already strong tourism and business travel through the summer as air passenger traffic and convention attendance continue to outpace year-ago levels. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity expanded modestly in June and early July according to industry contacts. Most firms reported current increases in production and new orders; although few reported new hiring. Expectations for the near-term future have become less positive. Uncertainty and concern over taxes and health care have contributed most to declining expectations about future activity, according to many contacts. Most manufacturers stated they are not planning to add workers in the near term. Increasing backlogs of orders for home textiles were reported, as well as a pickup in orders for sportswear, but production of other types of apparel has slowed because of declining retail sales growth. Strengthening residential construction is stimulating new orders at lumber and furniture companies, but commercial construction suppliers remain in the doldrums. Increased natural gas prices have boosted oil and gas production as well as business for related service companies. Energy companies are also planning capital expansion projects to meet environmental requirements. Defense-related job cuts continue for military contractors in the region, and cuts in both military and civilian aircraft orders have resulted in layoffs. Some industries, such as auto parts, noted slowing exports to Europe. Construction Real estate agents from across the District reported that home sales had leveled off in June and early July, though they remained above last year's levels. Starter and mid-priced homes continue to sell well, but luxury home sales are still fairly flat. Despite healthy single-family building, a lack of new home inventories has increased demand for resale homes in some areas. Most realtors and builders remain optimistic about the rest of the year, although a few contacts expressed concern that uncertainty about government fiscal policy was keeping potential buyers in their current homes. Increased rental rates have encouraged some multifamily building activity. Several contacts reported older multifamily properties were being purchased and refurbished at a much lower cost than new construction. Commercial real estate markets remain slow. Several contacts have seen modest improvement in leasing activity and occupancy rates, but effective rental rates remain too low to encourage any new speculative building. Retail construction and build-to-suit projects are providing almost all of the new commercial projects in the District. Financial Services Bankers' reports indicate that loan demand was mixed in June and early July. Weak demand was noted in Mississippi and Louisiana, while the rest of the District experienced a modest increase. Contacts noted that there is a lot of competition for good commercial loans, with several banks pursuing any good deal that comes along. Many commercial borrowers are taking advantage of the low rates to refinance existing debts. Consumer lending, especially for new cars, has picked up modestly in most of the District. Residential mortgage lending continues at a strong pace. Mortgage refinancings have begun to surge again after tailing off the latter part of June. Refinancings now make up about three-quarters of all mortgage loans. Agriculture In contrast to the Midwest, drought conditions exist in portions of Alabama, Georgia, and Tennessee. The situation is most severe in east-central Georgia and east Tennessee. In the affected areas of Georgia, the dry land corn crop may have been entirely lost. Cotton and soybean crops are also in need of rain, but are more drought tolerant than corn. Dairy farmers have been forced to dip into winter hay reserves because the pastures have become too dry to graze. In east Tennessee, grazing pastures and tobacco are being hurt the worst. Alabama crops have been less affected, but one-third of the corn crop acreage is now rated poor or very poor. On the other hand, Florida farm land has had at least adequate soil moisture in all areas except the northeastern coast. Mississippi and Louisiana crops are in good to excellent condition for the most part. Wages and Prices Factory contacts did not report any increases in raw materials or finished good prices. There were no reports of increasing wage pressures.