The Ninth District economy grew at a modest to firm pace since the last report.   Strength was noted in consumer spending, tourism, professional services, real   estate, construction, manufacturing, energy and mining, and agriculture. Firms   reported difficulties hiring qualified candidates, although wage increases   remained modest. Price increases were generally subdued.
Tourism officials and businesses were cautiously optimistic about the   upcoming summer season. According to a survey of Minnesota lodging and camping   properties, 39 percent of respondents expect summer occupancy to be up, while 15   percent expect decreases from a year ago. Officials in South Dakota reported an   increase in the number of tourism information requests; early warm weather   increased visits to a number of attractions.
Commercial real estate market activity increased. According to the   aforementioned University of St. Thomas survey, respondents expected growth in   commercial rents and occupancy. Several large Minnesota companies recently   renewed or signed new leases for additional office space. A real estate   consultancy reported that industrial vacancy rates in the Minneapolis area   decreased in the first quarter of this year compared with the fourth quarter of   last year; however, office and retail vacancy rates increased. Increases in   residential real estate sales continued across most of the District. Home sales   in April were up 7 percent from the same period a year ago in the   Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was down 29 percent   and the median sales price rose by 12 percent. In the Sioux Falls area, April   home sales were up 11 percent, inventory was down and the median sales price   rose 4 percent relative to a year ago.
In contrast, a surprising number of lay-offs were reported recently. A food   manufacturer announced plans to cut over 400 positions in Minnesota as part of a   restructuring strategy. Also in Minnesota a medical devices company will lay off   220 employees and a cleaning products manufacturer laid off 70 information   technology workers. An aerospace manufacturer will close a plant in northwestern   Wisconsin, affecting 130 workers.
A larger number of businesses reported wage increases, but the size of   increases remained modest. According to a recent Minneapolis Fed ad hoc survey   of business contacts, 65 percent reported that their companies were facing   higher wages. Larger wage increases were reported in the oil drilling region of   western North Dakota and eastern Montana.
Price pressures were generally subdued since the last report, although 73   percent of respondents to the Minneapolis Fed's ad hoc survey reported upward   input cost pressures. Late-May Minnesota gasoline prices were about 15 cents per   gallon lower than mid-April and 35 cents per gallon lower than a year ago. A   number of metals prices decreased since the last report. A recent budget   proposal for the University of Minnesota includes a 3.5 percent increase for   in-state undergraduates, the smallest percentage increase in 12 years.
