Most retailers noted a modest increase in sales activity, and auto sales   remained strong. Positive reports from the hospitality sector included healthy   occupancy and room rates, and future bookings were solid. Brokers and   homebuilders noted higher sales compared with last year, and commercial real   estate contacts stated they were seeing improvements led by gains in the   apartment segment. Manufacturers cited modest growth in new orders and   production. Bankers asserted that the demand for refinancing mortgages continued   to increase slowly. Hiring activity was positive, but muted. Firms continued to   note difficulty filling specialized positions. Most businesses indicated having   little pricing power; however, an increasing number of firms said that they have   been able to successfully pass on price increases, especially those tied to   energy costs.
Leisure and business travel contacts continued to report robust activity and   a solid outlook for the remainder of 2012. Occupancy and room rates exceeded   expectations and convention bookings remained strong. Reports also showed that a   number of hospitality-related capital investment projects were underway in   several areas across the District. Florida continued to be bolstered by visitors   from South America and Canada. Cruise-line bookings were down slightly compared   with the last report. High fuels costs were identified as a downside risk to the   summer travel season, but hospitality contacts were somewhat less concerned than   they were earlier in the year. They were more concerned, however, about a   potential decline in visitors from Europe.
District homebuilders reported that new home sales and construction rose   modestly compared with a year earlier. Builders indicated that home price   declines continued to abate. The majority indicated that new home inventories   declined further on a year-over-year basis. Contacts noted that multifamily   construction remained robust and new projects continued to be announced. In the   short-term, homebuilders expect sales and construction to be flat to slightly up   compared with a year earlier.
Improvements in the District's commercial real estate markets were led by   gains in occupancy and solid rental growth in the apartment sector. Overall,   small improvements were noted in the region's office and industrial sectors as   vacancy rates moderated somewhat; however, reports on District retail real   estate were more mixed. Although flat on a year-over-year basis, the majority of   commercial contractors said that year-to-date construction activity was slightly   ahead of activity in last year's fourth quarter. Backlogs were down from a year   earlier. Most contacts anticipate a modest increase in private construction   activity through the remainder of the year, while public works projects are   expected to decelerate.
Railroad contacts noted continued volume growth in shipments of automobiles,   metals, and forest products, along with strong intermodal demand. Shipments of   coal, construction-related aggregates, and chemicals continued to moderate,   however. Reports indicated that elevated diesel prices were allowing railroads   to maintain a competitive edge over trucking. At District ports, imports of   construction-related steel was reportedly strengthening.
Though most contacts continued to indicate having little pricing power, more   firms recounted successful attempts or plans to pass on price increases since   the last report. Increased transportation costs, including those resulting from   higher gasoline and other fuel prices were being passed on to consumers without   much difficulty. Firms responding in May to the Atlanta Fed's Business Inflation   Expectations survey reported that unit costs were expected to rise 1.8 percent   for the year ahead, down from an average of 2.0 percent over the previous three   month period. According to businesses surveyed, materials costs had subsided   somewhat since April, though they are still expected to have a moderate upward   influence on prices over the coming year. Despite continuing reports that sales   levels are below what they consider to be normal, contacts anticipate little to   moderate upward price pressure from improving sales levels over the next 12   months.
