The Eleventh District economy expanded at a moderate pace over the past six   weeks. Manufacturing activity was flat to up, demand for business services rose   and transportation services activity was mixed. Energy activity remained strong,   and the housing sector continued to improve. Retail sales rose moderately, and   auto sales were strong. Loan demand picked up since the last report. Drought   conditions improved. Most firms reported no change in selling prices. Employment   levels were steady to slightly higher, and wage pressures remained minimal. Most   firms' outlooks are optimistic, although many respondents expressed concern   about U.S. political uncertainty and the European debt situation.
The price of WTI fell from near $100 per barrel to the low $90 range over the   reporting period. Natural gas prices rose to $2.70 MMBtu after falling under $2   in early April. Respondents said the substitution of natural gas for coal in   power generation reduced inventories, although they remain 40 percent above   normal. The price of gasoline fell about 20 cents per gallon, and diesel prices   fell by 15 cents. Spot prices for several petrochemical products fell sharply as   plants returned to production following maintenance, and contacts expect   contract prices to follow.
High-tech manufacturers said orders continued to grow at a moderate pace.   According to contacts, demand for logic devices was strong, while orders and   prices for memory chips remained weak. One respondent noted some strengthening   in industrial demand and orders for communications infrastructure equipment,   such as cell phone towers. Inventories were near desired levels. The outlook for   the next three to six months is for mild to moderate growth, although one   contact said a recent increase in new orders has raised the likelihood that   production may pick up in the second half of the year.
Aviation equipment manufacturers said demand was flat during the reporting   period. Contacts were more pessimistic in their outlooks for the year, citing   soft demand and negative economic news as key factors. Recreational vehicle   manufacturers reported weak sales, in part due to economic uncertainty and fuel   price shocks. Food producers said sales activity increased over the past six   weeks, and orders were well above year-ago levels. Reports from paper   manufacturers were mixed, but contacts expect modest sales growth for the year.
Petrochemicals producers reported moderate domestic demand but said export   demand slowed, partly a result of higher U.S. plastics prices, but also due to   weaker growth in Asia and the Middle East. Notably, contacts said domestic PVC   demand rose for the first time in a long time in response to an increase in   housing starts and other construction. Outlooks for the petrochemical industry   were positive, and announcements for new construction or expansion continue at a   rapid pace. Refiners said margins improved slightly in early May.
Reports from transportation service firms were mixed. Small parcel and air   cargo volumes increased, while railroad shipments and shipping container volumes   declined during the reporting period. Intermodal firms reported an increase in   cargo volumes largely due to strong demand for oil field supplies.
Airlines said passenger demand improved over the past six weeks. Domestic   demand increased, while demand for international travel was flat. Contacts said   business travelers continued to be price sensitive and were purchasing   restricted discount fares. Responding firms expect passenger demand to remain   steady over the next three months.
Commercial real estate leasing activity remained strong across Texas metros.   Houston, in particular, saw robust office and industrial demand growth thanks to   strong energy sector expansion. Construction activity is expected to improve   modestly in Texas markets in the second half of 2012. Some contacts noted a   recent trepidation in the capital market/lending environment due to heightened   worries about European debt problems.
