The economy of the Eighth District has continued to grow at a modest pace since   our previous survey. Residential real estate market conditions have improved   moderately. Similarly, commercial real estate market conditions have also   improved. Retail and auto sales in April and early May increased over   year-earlier levels. In contrast, recent reports of plans from firms in the   manufacturing and services sectors were mixed. Reports of lending activity at a   sample of large District banks during the first quarter of 2012 were somewhat   mixed.
Car dealers in the District reported that sales in April and early May were   up, on average, compared with last year. About 64 percent of the car dealers   surveyed saw increases in sales, while 24 percent saw decreases and 12 percent   saw no changes. Twenty percent of the car dealers noted that new car sales had   increased relative to used car sales, while 20 percent reported the opposite.   Also, roughly 28 percent of contacts reported an increase in sales of low-end   vehicles relative to high-end vehicles, while about 12 percent reported the   opposite. Forty percent of the car dealers surveyed reported that their   inventories were too low, while about 8 percent reported that their inventories   were too high. The sales outlook for June and July was optimistic: 88 percent of   the car dealers expect sales to increase over 2011 levels, while just 8 percent   expect sales to decrease and 4 percent expect sales to be similar to last year's   sales.
Reports of planned activity in the District's service sector also have been   mixed since our previous survey. Contacts in air transportation support, travel,   and religious organization services announced plans to lay off workers and   reduce operations in the District. In contrast, firms in software development   services announced plans to hire additional workers and expand operations.
Commercial and industrial real estate conditions have continued to improve   throughout most of the District. Contacts in Louisville reported that the   increase in office real estate activity slowed during April, but overall   performance in the first quarter of 2012 remained strong. A contact in St. Louis   reported strong commercial real estate activity and weak industrial real estate   activity in the first quarter of 2012. Commercial and industrial construction   activity improved moderately throughout most of the District. Contacts in south   central Kentucky noted that new large commercial construction projects have been   undertaken, and a contact in Louisville reported plans for speculative   industrial construction. A contact in Pine Bluff, Arkansas, reported some new   large commercial construction plans. A contact noted a few large industrial   construction plans in Wentzville, Missouri, and some commercial and industrial   construction plans in Jefferson County, while a contact in St. Louis reported   steady commercial construction activity.
