Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and based on   information collected on or before May 25, 2012. This document summarizes   comments received from business and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve   and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.
Manufacturing continued to expand in most Districts. Consumer spending was   unchanged or up modestly. New vehicle sales remained strong and inventories of   some popular models were tight. Sales of used automobiles held steady. Travel   and tourism expanded, boosted by both the business and leisure segments. Demand   for nonfinancial services was generally stable to slightly higher since the last   report, and several Districts noted strong growth in information technology   services. Conditions in residential and commercial real estate improved.   Construction picked up in many areas of the country. Lenders in most Districts   noted an improvement in loan demand and credit conditions. Agricultural   conditions generally improved, and spring planting was well ahead of its normal   pace in most reporting Districts. Energy production and exploration continued to   expand, except for coal producers who noted a slight slowing in activity.
Wage pressures overall were modest. Hiring was steady or increased slightly,   and contacts in a number of Districts reported difficulties in finding qualified   workers, particularly those with specialized skills. Price inflation remained   modest across Districts, and overall cost pressures eased as the price of energy   inputs declined. Economic outlooks remain positive, but contacts were slightly   more guarded in their optimism.
Hiring at manufacturing firms was mixed, but manufacturers in some Districts   reported difficulty finding qualified workers such as welders. Capital spending   plans in most reporting Districts were positive. Ongoing capital investments and   plans for future capacity expansions were reported by various manufacturers in   the Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts. Firms in the   Cleveland District noted spending on capital outlays was on track, while   producers in the Philadelphia District reported a decline in future spending   plans since the previous report. Manufacturers' outlooks were positive in the   Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, and Kansas City Districts; however, contacts   in a number of Districts were concerned that a slowdown in Europe and domestic   political uncertainty may affect future business conditions.
Automobile sales generally remained strong, although the pace of growth   moderated in a few Districts. Sales of used vehicles held steady, and a slight   decline in prices was reported. Inventories of popular vehicles were tight.   Outlooks were positive and contacts across several Districts expect steady   growth in sales in coming months.
Reports from most Districts pointed to continued strength in travel and   tourism, bolstered by both the business and leisure segments. Favorable spring   weather spurred tourism in the Minneapolis and Kansas City Districts. Time-share   rentals were strong in the Richmond District, and foreign visitors boosted   activity in Florida as well as at theme parks in the Philadelphia District.   Restaurants and food service contacts in the Richmond, Kansas City, and San   Francisco Districts noted increased sales. Ticket prices and attendance at   Broadway theaters strengthened in the New York District, boosting revenues to   well above year-ago levels. Business travel picked up in the Boston, New York,   and Atlanta Districts, and convention bookings were strong according to the   Atlanta District. Hotel bookings were strong in the Boston and New York   Districts, and solid gains or high levels of occupancy and room rental rates   were noted by hotel contacts in most reporting Districts. Atlanta's report noted   that hospitality-related projects were underway in several areas of the   District.
A few Districts said that activity expanded for professional and business   services, such as accounting, engineering, advertising, and legal services. The   Boston District noted some renewed activity in the financial sector, although   engineering and accounting demand remained weak. The Richmond District said   architectural engineering firms reported stronger revenues, and Minneapolis   noted strength in engineering near oil producing areas, in part due to planned   future construction. Responding firms in the Dallas District noted strength in   legal services and accounting.
Advertising sales picked up in the Philadelphia and San Francisco Districts,   and air travel improved in the Dallas and San Francisco Districts. Freight   transportation volumes moved higher in Cleveland, and railroad contacts in the   Atlanta District noted continued growth. However, Kansas City's report noted   flat activity in transportation, and the Dallas report noted mixed results from   shipping firms.
Home sales were above year-ago levels in most areas of the country and   several Districts noted sales had improved since the previous report, although   some noted that the pace was well below the historical average. In particular,   the New York, Cleveland, and Richmond Districts noted a pickup in the pace of   distressed sales. Residential brokers and some builders in the Philadelphia,   Atlanta, and Dallas Districts said home sales were exceeding expectations.   Contacts in the Richmond District said homes were being snapped up as investors   become more confident in the housing recovery, and the Atlanta report noted   stronger sales to cash buyers and investors in Florida. Chicago said more sales   had multiple offers. Apartment rental markets improved in the New York, Atlanta,   and Dallas Districts. One contact from the New York District noted rising   apartment rents have made buying more attractive, contributing to a slight   uptick in sales.
Most Districts reported that home inventories decreased. Overall, home prices   remained unchanged in many Districts, although reports were mixed. There were a   few reports that sellers were lowering asking prices, leading to downward   pressure on housing prices.
New home construction increased in a number of Districts, including   Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco. Contacts   in the Philadelphia District said demand for new home construction eased   slightly. Builders in Kansas City noted housing starts were down, but they   expected an increase in the next three months. The Boston, Atlanta, and Chicago   Districts reported an increase in multifamily construction, and the Minneapolis   District noted numerous multifamily projects were in the pipeline.
Commercial real estate conditions improved in most Districts, and there were   some reports that commercial construction picked up. Commercial leasing remained   steady or increased in most Districts including Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta,   Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. The New   York, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts noted growth in the technology sector   was prompting the absorption of commercial space. Energy activity was helping   boost demand for space in the Richmond and Dallas Districts. Boston's relatively   strong commercial market continued to generate robust investor interest,   although commercial property sales in the New York District remained slow.
Build-to-suit construction was noted by the Boston and Philadelphia   Districts. The New York District reported new office development projects in the   pipeline, and St. Louis' report noted a pickup in speculative industrial   projects. The Richmond District said expansion in manufacturing led to a pickup   in construction. Reports from the Cleveland and Chicago Districts suggested an   increase in hotels and higher education projects, and a New York contact noted   that interest in luxury hotel development increased. Outlooks were positive   overall, although there were a few reports of increased uncertainty from still   unknown U.S. fiscal changes and Europe's debt situation.
Reports on mortgage lending generally indicated slow improvement. The New   York District noted stronger mortgage lending, although growth in refinancing   eased. The Cleveland District indicated strong mortgage demand and a shift from   home refinancing to new purchases. The Richmond District cited continued   improvement in mortgage demand, although refinancing still dominated much of the   mortgage lending. The Atlanta District said that more applicants had ample cash   for down payments or enough equity in their homes to meet refinancing   requirements. Demand for commercial real estate loans was generally reported to   be stronger.
A number of Districts, including Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, and San   Francisco, said loan pricing remained quite competitive. New York District   respondents noted a decrease in spreads of loan rates over the cost of funds,   particularly for commercial mortgages. Lending standards were relatively   unchanged to slightly easier across Districts and loan types. Bankers reporting   on deposit growth indicated that deposits were steady or continued to increase.   Credit quality remained solid, and there were several reports of improved loan   quality. Most District banks said loan delinquencies continued to decline.
Energy activity remained robust, with drilling expanding further in the   Cleveland, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. Atlanta's   report noted that increased investment in transportation infrastructure was   needed to accommodate the recent rise in domestic and Canadian energy   production. Exploration and production continued to shift away from dry-gas to   wet-gas or oil-directed drilling in the Dallas and San Francisco Districts in   part due to low natural gas prices. Firms in the Kansas City District said they   would like to expand payrolls but reported difficulty finding engineers and   experienced field workers. Iron-ore and rock mining continued to expand at a   strong pace according to the Minneapolis District report. In contrast, demand   for coal slowed in the Cleveland and St. Louis Districts, and contacts noted   that production was below year-ago levels. Limestone quarries in the Minneapolis   District continued to report sluggish demand.
Price inflation was modest across most areas of the country. Reports from   several Districts, including New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago,   Minneapolis, and Dallas indicated selling prices were stable or had softened   somewhat since the previous report. Some Districts, including Philadelphia,   Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco noted cost pressures eased as   the price of energy inputs fell. However, Atlanta's report noted some firms had   implemented price increases tied to previous increases in energy costs, and   firms in the Kansas City District noted higher input and final goods prices.

