Overall, business activity in the Third District continues to improve, but the   pace has slowed slightly in most sectors since the previous Beige Book.   Manufacturing activity has eased slightly, but most major manufacturing sectors   continue to grow. After a strong first quarter, partially due to the   unseasonably mild weather, retail sales slowed somewhat in April but appear to   be gaining strength based on customer traffic in May. Although sales remain   strong overall, motor vehicle dealers also reported softer sales in April. Third   District banks report steadier growth in lending and continued strong credit   quality since the last Beige Book. Demand for new home construction has eased   off a bit, but brokers report stronger sales of existing homes. Several signs of   improvement were cited by commercial real estate contacts. Overall,   service-sector firms report continued growth. Price pressures have eased   slightly in some sectors since the last Beige Book.
The outlook remains optimistic, but more firms readily noted the slow pace of   the recovery relative to the sunnier views expressed in the last Beige Book.   Manufacturers' expectations for the next six months, although diminished, remain   positive. Retailers continue to expect steady improvement. Auto dealers   anticipate continued strong sales. Banking, real estate, and service-sector   firms are slightly more optimistic but continue to plan for slow growth in 2012.   In general, business plans reflect caution, and businesses have resumed a more   realistic perspective on the limitations of the current recovery and the risks   to its longevity.
About eight out of 10 Third District manufacturers expect business conditions   to improve or stay the same during the next six months – somewhat less   optimistic than reported in the last Beige Book. Except for primary metals,   optimism is present in all major sectors. Firms seem relatively divided as to   whether high energy costs are a concern, depending largely on their ability to   pass the cost along to their customers. New to the list of concerns and   uncertainties about the outlook is the increasing worry that political gridlock   will lead to large cuts in defense-related production through sequestration.   While caution remains, firms have reported a little more optimism as have their   customers. However, manufacturers have expressed somewhat lower expectations of   future capital spending and future hiring since the last Beige Book.
Auto sales in Pennsylvania shifted from strong in March to moderately strong   in April. Very low borrowing costs for inventories have helped to support   dealers' profitability. A large New Jersey dealer reports that retail auto sales   are off year-over-year through April but that fleet sales are strong. Profits   are also off. The dearth of auto sales in recent years has created a slump for   dealer service sales; they must compete harder to retain customers with aging   cars that typically are taken to independent garages. The outlook for auto sales   remains positive. Hiring remains spotty and depends on brands carried, fleet   business, and local economic conditions.
Nonresidential real estate activity has been generally positive since the   last Beige Book, with several contacts citing increased leasing activity   throughout the District, including southern New Jersey. Despite ongoing demand,   Philadelphia's Center City office market has slowed a bit, as the bulk of   existing class-A trophy space is now under agreement. Several contacts also   cited a few large build-to-suit projects that have gone to bid and are awaiting   approvals before construction begins. Other contacts noted reluctance among   transportation contractors to hire more workers, given the uncertain future of   public infrastructure funding due to the increasingly short funding horizon of   the federal transportation authorization bill. The overall outlook for   nonresidential real estate has brightened slightly since the last Beige Book.
