Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to grow at a moderate pace   during the reporting period of April through late May. Price increases for final   goods and services were very modest, and upward wage pressures were quite   limited overall. Sales of retail items rose, as did demand for consumer and   business services. District manufacturing activity picked up further. Sales   remained robust for agricultural producers, while conditions were mixed for   providers of energy resources. Demand rose modestly for residential real estate   and also improved a bit for commercial real estate. District banking contacts   reported that overall loan demand edged up, and they noted further slight   improvements in credit quality.
Contacts reported that upward wage pressures were quite limited overall. High   unemployment and modest demand for new hires continued to hold down compensation   gains for workers in most industries and occupations. However, wage and   compensation gains remained substantial in various industries and regions for   workers with specialized skills in the application of information technology.
Demand for business and consumer services rose a bit further on balance.   Activity was largely flat for professional services such as legal services and   accounting, as well as for health-care services. By contrast, demand improved   for transportation services such as trucking. Sales rose at a modest pace for   providers of technology services, with the pace held down in part by weaker   sales to European buyers; however, contacts continue to anticipate that growth   will pick up in the second half of the year. Activity expanded further for radio   and television broadcasters, spurred by rising demand for advertising slots.   Sales activity improved further for restaurants and other food-service   providers. District travel activity continued to pick up, with contacts in major   markets such as Southern California, Hawaii, and Nevada highlighting ongoing   improvements in visitor counts and hotel occupancy rates.

