Business activity in the Fourth District has grown at a moderate pace since the   beginning of April. Manufacturers reported stable production, while residential   and nonresidential construction showed moderate growth. Retail sales held   steady, and auto dealers described April sales as generally good. Exploration   and production in shale gas expanded, even as the demand for coal has slowed.   Freight transport volume moved higher. And the market for business credit has   strengthened.
Hiring continued at a modest pace across most industry sectors, although   staffing-firm representatives reported that the number of job openings had   increased for information technology and healthcare workers. Wage pressures are   contained. Input prices were stable, apart from increases in building materials.
No change in capacity utilization was noted, with most producers running at   or slightly below normal rates. Inventories were generally consistent with   demand. Respondents citing rising inventories reported that they are manageable.   Capital budgets remain on track; only one-third of our contacts said that they   expect to increase outlays during the upcoming months, mainly for information   technology upgrades or capacity expansion. Input costs were stable, with any   upward pressure being characterized as modest. However, the majority of our   respondents reported raising their product prices slightly, partly to recoup   raw-material cost increases that they were unable to pass through in prior   years. A few manufacturers reported hiring due to expansions in auto and steel   plants; otherwise there was little change in payrolls. Wage pressures are   contained.
Activity in nonresidential construction for small to medium-size contractors   continued to strengthen and stands at a higher level than a year ago. Financing   projects is getting easier, but banks still demand a substantial equity share on   the part of the developer, and the amount of due diligence required has   increased. Construction activity is broad based, driven by healthcare, higher   education, hospitality, and retail. We heard several reports of downward   pressure on rents for retail space, which was attributed to retailers looking   for smaller footprints. Our contacts expect that business will continue to   slowly improve as the year progresses. The majority of residential and   commercial builders reported hiring a few people, but recruiting highly   qualified candidates is difficult, especially for project managers. Top   candidates are demanding higher wages.
Auto dealers characterized new-vehicle purchases during the past six weeks as   generally good, with commercial truck sales doing particularly well. Some   slowing of passenger car sales was reported, which dealers attributed to a lack   of incentives from the manufacturers and a small number of lease rollovers. On a   year-over-year basis, transactions were higher. Most contacts are satisfied with   their inventory positions. The outlook by dealers for the remainder of 2012 has   grown more positive since our last report, although some dealers believe that   total sales during 2012 will be slightly below prior-year levels. Purchases of   used vehicles were fairly steady year-over-year--inventories are building and   prices declined slightly. On the financing side, we heard two reports that banks   are more willing to work with dealers. Leasing activity picked up. Dealers are   investing in manufacturer-mandated facility upgrades and imaging programs.   Hiring for sales and service positions continued, but at a very slow pace.
