Economic activity in the First District continues to expand, with contacts in   most sectors citing steady growth. Commercial real estate markets show slight   improvement and residential real estate contacts are finally mentioning   recovery, albeit fragile. Respondents in this round rarely mention prices or   pricing. Except for software and IT services where growth continues to be   relatively strong, few firms are doing substantial hiring. The outlook is   generally for more of the same, although a couple of manufacturers mention   making contingency plans for a potential slowdown.
The travel and tourism sector in the First District continues to report   strong results. Both business and leisure travel have been up in the first four   months of the year, and advance hotel bookings continue to be robust. For 2012,   the industry expects a 9.5 percent increase over 2011.
Thirteen of 16 responding firms report growing sales in the most recent   period compared with a year earlier. Idiosyncratic factors appear to be driving   the weakness for one firm with declining sales; contacts at the other two could   not point to anything other than general macroeconomic weakness as explanations.   A manufacturer of industrial motors mentions the situation in Europe while   noting that sales are soft in all regions in which the company sells.
The jury is still out on the role of weather in the evolution of business   conditions over the last six months. Several of our contacts cited mysterious   sales declines at various points which then corrected themselves. A manufacturer   of hoses was off 30 percent at the end of March but then had his "best April   ever" and was back on plan by this round. He hypothesizes that winter goods   weren't selling, so big retailers--hoping to avoid having to store snow shovels   and road salt over the summer--lacked space until recently to put spring goods   on the shelves.
Dramatic changes in U.S. energy supply continue to affect economic activity,   according to manufacturing respondents. A chemical manufacturer in the First   District said that the low current price of natural gas is restructuring the   world chemical industry. For the first time in decades, chemical firms are   building ethylene crackers in the United States.
All contacts doing business in Europe report that the European manufacturing   economy is near or in recession. Asia continues to be relatively strong, but one   contact in the industrial membrane business said that "the best and most stable   market" is the United States.
Fourteen of 16 contacts report that their firms are hiring; nonetheless, they   remain reluctant to add to headcount in any significant way. One manufacturer of   parts for the aerospace and automotive industry says that, despite strong   growth, they have relied mostly on temporary workers to increase production. A   contact in the industrial distribution business reports that if conditions do   not improve, they will cut staff. Another firm which makes industrial motors   says they are drawing up contingency plans for a serious decline which include a   hiring freeze.
Most contacts report increases in headcount, with many continuing to add   sales and marketing personnel as well as billable consultants; by contrast, one   firm recently completed a realignment in which headcount was reduced by   approximately 5 percent. Capital and technology spending and selling prices have   gone largely unchanged since February. Looking forward, New England software and   IT contacts remain cautiously optimistic, with upticks in activity and strong   pipelines tempered by concerns regarding the U.S. economy and the European debt   crisis.
Regarding labor supply, candidates with high-end skill sets such as nurses,   mechanical and electrical engineers, and software developers remain difficult to   find; one contact reports that this shortage of qualified labor has begun to put   upward pressure on pay rates. Other contacts, however, say that increases in   bill rates and pay rates, if any, are due almost entirely to changes in their   business mix. The outlook among New England staffing contacts is generally   consistent with that of three months ago, with most expecting their current rate   of growth to continue or pick up through the end of the year.
Despite a recent uptick in showings, demand in the industrial sector remains   flat across New England. Office leasing volumes throughout the District are   unchanged from six weeks ago, and the retail sector continues to be quiet in New   England. The outlook among contacts is that, barring significant macroeconomic   turmoil, conditions should remain flat or improve slightly in the rest of the   year.
Though contacts characterize housing markets as recovering, they note that   conditions remain fragile; in particular, with sales gains fairly well   established, their concerns focus on the possibility of further price declines.   Contacts expect the delicate recovery of housing markets to continue gradually;   most anticipate modest gains in sales activity for the next several months and   modest price changes, up and down. Respondents say declining inventory levels   and increasing demand in Greater Boston may put upward pressure on prices there.
