The Second District's economy has continued to expand at a moderate pace since   the last report. Labor market conditions have generally improved, and, on   balance, contacts indicate they plan to add workers in the months ahead.   Business contacts in a number of industries note a slowing pace of cost   increases and mostly stable selling prices. Manufacturers report a pickup in   business conditions. Tourism activity has been strong since the last report,   while retailers and auto dealers indicate steady sales activity in April and   May. Home sales activity has continued to increase gradually since the last   report, though prices have generally been steady to somewhat lower. Rental   markets remain strong, with rents rising due to tight inventory levels. New York   City's commercial real estate market has tightened slightly. Finally, bankers   report widespread increases in loan demand, no change in credit standards, and   continued broad-based declines in delinquency rates.
Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales remained fairly brisk   since the last report. Sales of new vehicles were up modestly from a year   earlier in April and are seen remaining steady in May. Product availability is   no longer a drag on sales, except for some of the most popular models. The used   car market continues to be strong and prices remain elevated, although dealers   in the Buffalo area note some recent softening in prices at auction. Wholesale   and retail credit conditions remain favorable and continue to improve.
Tourism activity has been quite robust since the last report. New York City   hotels indicate that revenues were up roughly 10 percent from a year ago in   April and May. This increase reflects both higher room rates and higher   occupancy rates. Hotel bookings have been fairly broad based, but an industry   contact notes that there has been a noticeable pickup in business travelers in   recent months. Moreover, ticket prices and attendance at Broadway theaters   increased in April and May; as a result, theater revenues were up considerably   from a year ago.
New York City's office market has tightened slightly since the last report,   although leasing activity has slowed in recent months. Office vacancy rates have   edged down and rents have risen 7-8 percent from a year ago. However, a major   commercial brokerage firm notes that demand for office space from the finance   industry has softened considerably since earlier in the year. Some of this   recent softening has been offset by strong demand by technology firms,   especially in the Midtown South area. There also continues to be a fair degree   of leasing activity from businesses in the media, information, and legal   sectors. Commercial property sales activity remains slow. There is a moderate   amount of new office development underway, but most of it will not come on-line   for another 12-18 months. In addition, a hospitality industry contact notes that   interest in luxury hotel development in Manhattan has increased recently.
On balance, labor market conditions have continued to improve across the   District since the last report. Moreover, both manufacturers and business   contacts in other sectors say that they plan to increase hiring activity in the   months ahead. However, a major New York City employment agency specializing in   office jobs reports that hiring activity has been mixed since the last report,   with bouts of starts and stops in hiring and some reluctance by   firms--particularly in the finance sector--to commit to hiring new employees.   Moreover, fewer job openings are available in part because the amount of job   churn is still much less than normal. A financial industry contact reports that   previously-announced major layoffs at large banks in the New York City area are   ongoing and expected to continue.
