Summary Reports from 12th District contacts indicate continued strong growth in California and the District as a whole, although with some moderation among states that have been growing the fastest. District manufacturing activity was robust overall but tempered slightly by weakness in some sectors, notably in the market for computer memory chips. Sales of retail items and services were strong. District real estate markets were tight in general, with residential sales in California exhibiting signs of a pickup. Despite some reports of labor shortages and rising labor costs, price pressures were reported to be modest overall, with the exception of noticeable increases in grocery prices. Business Sentiment District respondents expect solid national and regional economic performance in the near term. Most respondents expect that national unemployment will remain stable and national GDP will continue to grow moderately; among the respondents expecting a change, more expect improvement than deterioration. In contrast, although 55 percent of respondents expect inflation to remain constant during the next 12 months, nearly 40 percent expect it to accelerate. With regard to regional conditions, over three-quarters of the respondents expect growth in their area to continue outpacing national growth. Respondents' expectations regarding District business investment are particularly favorable, with nearly 60 percent expecting acceleration, but their expectations regarding new housing starts in the District are somewhat less optimistic than they were earlier in the summer. Retail Trade and Services Sales by retail and service establishments were healthy throughout the District. Respondents from several states reported large increases in retail sales relative to year-ago levels. Grocery sales were strong in most of the District, and respondents noted grocery store expansion plans in several states. Moreover, prices on some items-particularly fruits and vegetables and dairy products-rose noticeably. In California, strong demand for telecommunications services continued, and several District states benefited from expanding computer software development and sales. Southern California port traffic was heavy, and significant expansion of terminal facilities and other infrastructure is underway there. Hotel occupancies and other tourism trade were strong in several states, such as Utah and Hawaii, although higher hotel rates and a weakened Japanese currency have increased effective tour prices in the latter state. Manufacturing The manufacturing sector exhibited substantial strength in most areas of the District, although a primary exception was continued slack in the computer memory chip industry. In Washington, a large order backlog at Boeing has led to significant new hiring and equipment expansion by that company and some of its suppliers, such as electronics equipment manufacturers. In addition, several respondents noted wage pressures and difficulties finding qualified personnel in the state. Sales were very strong for heavy construction machinery and machine tools, with growing foreign orders offsetting slowed domestic demand growth for the latter. Sporting goods manufacturers have been expanding in Washington and in the southernmost portion of California. However, weakness was reported among heavy truck and aluminum manufacturers in Washington. In the Pacific Northwest more generally, lumber demand was high, reportedly due to growing demand for construction lumber, but pulp and paper markets were weak and characterized by rising inventories. High-tech manufacturing activity was mixed in the region. Some companies in the San Francisco Bay Area-particularly those that supply production equipment to computer memory chip manufacturers- recently have cut staff and delayed building plans. However, reports of cutbacks by semiconductor manufacturing firms were offset by reports from respondents in several states of continued expansion among makers of other high-tech product lines. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries District agricultural production and sales were solid overall, although some crops were affected by recent hot weather in California. Reports indicated good grain harvests in Washington, Idaho, and Utah, and nut and cotton yields were high in California. Due to hot weather, several California fruit crops have come in prematurely, although the impact on yield size and quality reportedly has been limited. Despite a recent small increase in beef cattle prices, the District's struggling cattle industry has been hurt by reductions in exports to Japan due to a scare about contaminated beef in that country. Real Estate and Construction Residential and commercial real estate markets were tight in most areas of the District, although commercial construction reportedly has cooled in some locales. Residential construction has improved in much of California, due to the state's economic resurgence. Public works construction in California also is up, including a major freeway reconstruction project in San Francisco. In the broad San Francisco Bay Area, commercial vacancies were low, but rental rates remained stable and new building was limited. Commercial real estate markets tightened in Washington, and lease rates rose there. In contrast, although current and planned construction remain at high levels in Utah, construction activity and housing price appreciation have decelerated there. Financial Institutions District financial institutions registered solid performance. Retail and commercial loan demand was reported at "all time highs" by a bank that covers much of the District, and deposit growth was unusually rapid. Banks in Southern and Central California reported modestly improved conditions. The strong District financial outlook was tempered only by margin pressures on banks in accelerating growth areas such as Washington, and by reports of substantially increased bankruptcy filings in Idaho and Utah.