Overview District economic activity continued to expand in recent weeks, although growth has moderated in some sectors. Manufacturing rebounded sharply from July; commercial real estate activity continued to gain strength; and state tax revenues grew more quickly. Activity at ports and in the service sector was steady. Retail sales growth and housing activity weakened, and lending continued to slow somewhat. Reports of labor market tightness and upward pressures on wages were widespread, but only scattered reports of price pressures were received. In agriculture, weather- related diseases damaged some crops, but most yields were still expected to be excellent. Retail Trade Several District retailers reported that activity expanded more slowly in August. They said that overall sales growth was sluggish, with little improvement in shopper traffic, although big ticket sales were steady. One large chain of home improvement stores, however, reported much stronger sales in August than in July. Employment grew only modestly; one West Virginia retailer commented that "finding quality employees continues to be difficult." Wage growth continued to be strong. Contacts noted that their inventory levels increased. Retail prices rose more slowly during the last several weeks; respondents, however, expected prices to rise more during the next six months than they had expected in July. Compared to July, contacts lowered their expectations of demand for their products over the next six months. Services Service producers contacted by mail reported a steady pace of activity in August. Revenues and employment grew at the same rate in recent weeks as in July, although wage growth was more modest. Contacts said their prices rose more slowly in August, and respondents expected smaller increases in prices and in the demand for their product over the next six months. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity grew at a substantially faster pace in August. Respondents to a mail survey of District manufacturers reported stronger growth in shipments, particularly of industrial machinery and equipment. New orders increased sharply, especially at printing firms, and order backlogs rose. Manufacturing employment edged up slightly amid widespread complaints of labor shortages. Manufacturers, however, indicated that their inventories remained above desired levels. Contacts reported that finished goods prices decreased slightly and that raw materials prices increased slightly in August from July. Respondents' six-month outlook was for lower finished goods prices and somewhat higher raw materials prices. Tourism Tourist activity generally softened in late August. Except at mountain resorts, most District contacts reported that hotel room occupancy rates were below July levels, possibly due to the early opening of schools in neighboring states. Many contacts from coastal areas said that their August revenues were below average. One respondent from the Outer Banks told us that tourists' concerns about Hurricane Edouard had led to a drop off in inquiries for the Labor Day weekend. In addition, fall bookings throughout the District were down slightly compared to a year ago. Port Activity Representatives at District ports indicated that July import levels were higher than in June but that export levels were lower; both import and export levels were lower than a year ago. Most representatives continued to anticipate that exports and imports would increase during the next six months. Temporary Employment The demand for contingent workers grew faster in August, according to a survey of Fifth District temporary employment agencies. Clerical and light-industrial workers were particularly in demand. Respondents characterized labor markets as generally tight and several expected their local markets to tighten further as students returned to school. One respondent from Roanoke, Va., said that labor shortages in her area were becoming desperate. Several contacts noted that wage levels increased during August, especially for skilled labor. Finance Overall lending activity in the District slowed slightly during August. Contacts at financial institutions suggested that consumers had adopted a "wait-and-see" attitude toward further borrowing. Several mortgage lenders reported that the short-lived dip in interest rates in late July and early August was accompanied by a temporary increase in mortgage demand, but that as rates rose, demand eased. Some contacts noted declines in commercial lending at their institutions. Two respondents reported that they had recently tightened their lending standards while several others indicated that a future tightening of standards was likely. Residential Real Estate According to a telephone survey of District real estate agents and homebuilders, residential real estate activity declined slightly in late July and August. Housing starts, permits, and customer traffic were somewhat lower. Respondents indicated that home sales were steady and that sales prices increased slightly. Subcontractor wages rose slightly and some materials prices increased sharply; one West Virginia homebuilder said that lumber prices had "skyrocketed." Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate activity picked up in August, according to a telephone survey of commercial real estate brokers. Leasing activity continued to escalate; one Richmond agent characterized the market there as "red-hot," and a South Carolina respondent remarked, "We don't know how much better it could get." Vacancy rates declined and rental rates continued to climb. The availability of prime office space continued to tighten, and a number of contacts reported shortages in their areas. Respondents throughout the District reported an increase in new construction, including speculative projects, although contacts in Northern Virginia and the District of Columbia noted that local rent levels were not high enough to spur much new construction. State Revenues State tax collections generally increased faster in July than in June. Withholding tax collections rose in most jurisdictions, but were slightly lower in West Virginia. Sales tax collections and real estate recordation tax receipts increased. Corporate tax collections increased only slightly; a North Carolina contact blamed flat corporate profitability for the small increase in corporate collections. Agriculture Drier weather in late August allowed farmers to catch up on field work and slowed the spread of moisture-related crop disease, according to agriculture analysts. Disease damage was expected to reduce tobacco and peanut yields, but analysts anticipated that the production of those crops would be sharply higher than a year ago. Bumper crops of corn and soybeans were also expected. Hay harvesting activity picked up as drier weather allowed cutting and curing activities to resume.