Inflation indicators from the District reports were varied and generally inconclusive, although there appears to be greater upward pressure on wages than on prices. Business activity in most Districts is reported to be generally good and expanding moderately. Wages and Prices Reports of substantial price increases were notably absent from many District summaries. Several Districts indicated that consumer prices are either stable or rising only slightly (Boston, New York, Cleveland, and Kansas City). Price increases were cited for a wide variety of industrial commodities, but these appear to be confined to a small set of markets, such as lumber (Boston, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas), steel (Cleveland and Chicago), and various agricultural commodities including grains and dairy products. Several Districts also noted price declines in a few areas, especially memory chips (Boston and Dallas).Wage gains have tended to outstrip price increases, however. The Richmond District sees "widespread" upward pressure on wages, and rising labor costs were also noted in the San Francisco District. The Boston District's wage and salary increases are in the 2 percent to 4 percent range. In Cleveland, wage growth is reportedly 2 percent to 3 percent, although "the cost of new hires is accelerating." This is consistent with the Minneapolis report, in which several sources observed "upward pressure on entry-level wages." The Chicago District notes that small retailers in Michigan were "raising their starting wages to attract qualified workers," but most contacts reported no discernible acceleration in wages. In the remaining regions, upward wage pressures were characterized as either "subdued" (as in the New York and Chicago Districts), or "scattered" (Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas).None of the Districts indicated inflationary pressures are subsiding and at least one report noted that price increases are expected to intensify. According to the San Francisco District, although about 55 percent of respondents see inflation remaining constant over the next 12 months, "nearly 40 percent expect inflation to accelerate." Labor Markets Many District reports indicated pockets of labor market tightness, and in a few regions, this tightness appears to be broadly based. In the Richmond District, tight labor markets are "widespread," labor markets "remained tight in much of the Kansas City District," the Chicago District's labor markets are "tighter than the nation as a whole," and tight labor markets "continue to be a concern for most contacts" in the St. Louis District. Elsewhere, "some reports of labor shortages" were noted in the San Francisco District, and a number of District summaries contained scattered indications of labor shortages in entry-level positions, retailing, and some skilled occupations. Low unemployment rates were noted in the Cleveland and Minneapolis Districts. Business Activity Overall, the District reports reveal a moderately expanding economy, with only a few exceptions: Growth in the San Francisco District is characterized as "strong," and the St. Louis region has "continued to moderate slightly." Manufacturing In most Districts, industrial activity is either expanding or holding steady at a high level. Richmond reports "substantially faster" manufacturing growth. Although a moderation in industrial production growth is seen in the Cleveland and Kansas City Districts, both report continued high levels of production. Orders growth is indicated by many Districts (Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas). Notable exceptions include continued cutbacks or closings in apparel and textiles (Atlanta and St. Louis) and drop-offs in heavy truck production (Cleveland and San Francisco). Only a few constraints on industrial capacity are reported, and capacity increases are occurring in the Boston and Atlanta Districts. Retailing The back-to-school shopping season got off to a good start, and several Districts indicated that sales are meeting, or exceeding, expectations. A good number of Districts reported strong apparel sales (Boston, New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Kansas City), although these vary by type and outlet. Household appliances and other "big-ticket" items are a noted weakness in two reports (Cleveland and Chicago).Overall, inventories are considered "in line with sales," and the Boston District reported that some retailers are "cautiously building inventories." While auto sales are generally described as flat or declining slightly, thin car stocks are seen as a contributing factor (Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas). Real Estate and Construction Building activity remains strong in most parts of the country. The Chicago District reports "robust" construction, Minneapolis sees all types of construction as "brisk," and Kansas City indicates "solid" home building activity. The San Francisco District reports "tight" residential and commercial real estate markets in most areas, and office vacancy rates are low in parts of the New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts. Construction and sales vary more for residential properties than for commercial ones. Boston reports the residential real estate market to be in good shape across much of New England. Residential real estate has improved in the New York District, and inventory problems are noted in downstate New York and Massachusetts. However, softer residential markets are reported in the Cleveland, Richmond, and Dallas regions. Banking and Financial Markets Loan demand appears to be holding steady at a generally high level. Exceptions to this trend include the Richmond District, where overall lending has slowed slightly, the Atlanta District, where demand is "moderate," and the St. Louis District, which saw slight declines in total loans between mid-June and mid-August. Borrowing activity is mixed by category. Several Districts indicate a moderation in commercial lending (New York, Richmond, and St. Louis), but some also see relatively strong commercial lending growth (Chicago and San Francisco). Consumer borrowing reports are equally varied. While some deterioration in credit quality and increases in delinquency rates were noted, no concerns about overall debt quality were expressed. Seasonal Industries Agricultural conditions vary widely by District, but most regions report better crop conditions today than earlier in the summer. Still, a delayed planting season has resulted in underdeveloped crops in many areas, and there is concern that crops could be threatened in the event of an early frost (Chicago and Minneapolis). The Richmond and Kansas City Districts report very good corn and soybean crops. High feed costs are contributing to livestock liquidations, and milk production is down substantially from last year (Chicago and Minneapolis). Districts with a significant tourist trade reported mixed results for the summer season. "Ticket revenues for the Olympics, overall, exceeded projections," according to Atlanta. That District also notes that while tourism in central Florida remains strong, its other, non-Olympic venues have been disappointing. In New York, hotel occupancy rates are near record highs, and the San Francisco District indicates strong hotel occupancy and other tourism trade in several states. The Richmond region had "below average" tourism revenues in the Atlantic coastal areas, and a "weak, but not disastrous year" for tourism was reported in the Minneapolis District.