Eleventh District economic activity strengthened in August from July's moderate pace. Despite relatively strong demand and desired inventory levels for most products, there were only scattered reports of price pressures since the last survey. Manufacturing orders accelerated in August, with strong demand for construction- and energy-related products. Back-to-school retail sales were good, and sales continued to pick up along the Texas-Mexico border. An increase in commercial construction offset slower new home construction, and Eleventh District loan demand remained steady. Energy activity continued to strengthen, and heavy rains improved agricultural conditions. Prices and Wages There were scattered reports of price pressures. Prices were up for oil field machinery, apparel, lumber and some paper products. In addition, crude oil prices remained relatively high, despite approval for Iraqi entry into the market. Real estate prices continued to firm up as low office, warehouse, and apartment vacancies pushed up rents. Nevertheless, prices continued to fall for electronic products, such as memory chips, telecommunication products, and computer components-where inventories were still too big, according to contacts. Brick producers said prices were steady to slightly lower after rising strongly earlier in the year. Also, natural gas prices fell to six month lows, a result of milder weather and rising storage levels. There were some reports of wage pressures in the past six weeks. Contacts in the energy industry said labor shortages for workers with certain oil-related skills were pushing up wages. Several contacts in the high-tech sector noted wage pressures for skilled development engineers. Furthermore, some manufacturing respondents noted a lack of qualified, entry-level applicants, which has been a recurring observation throughout the year. Manufacturing Manufacturing orders accelerated in August following slow growth in July. Several respondents in the electronics industry said unit demand for semiconductors was flat in August after falling since early this year. Despite the recent improvement, contacts did not expect a sustained increase in overall chip orders until the first half of 1997. Demand for telecommunications products held steady at July's healthy levels, and unit computer demand picked up slightly, although contacts in both industries said inventories were too high. Most construction-related producers said orders remained strong and inventories were slightly tighter than desired, especially those supplying commercial contractors. Lumber orders continued to rise, with much of the strength stemming from increases in commercial construction and home remodeling. Brick producers said demand was steady, with fewer orders from homebuilders but rising orders from commercial and apartment builders. Demand for metal products remained steady at good levels, with much of it related to the construction of industrial warehouses. Paper manufacturers said orders had improved, and demand was also up for corrugated box producers. Apparel orders were up slightly. Strong energy activity caused oil field equipment orders to strengthen further, and some contacts noted that demand was outstripping available capacity. Chemical orders remained strong, the only exception being for products tied to synthetic fibers. Refiners noted a slight improvement since the last survey, but overall, low product prices and high crude oil prices continued to squeeze margins. Retail and Auto Sales Most retailers reported good back-to-school sales, although in general, department stores reported better August sales than discount stores. Some retailers said Texas sales growth was not as strong as in the rest of the nation despite improvement along the Texas-Mexico border. Auto sales were flat over the past six weeks, as the 1996 models became "picked over" but the 1997 models were not yet in stock. Financial Services Loan demand was mostly steady since the last survey. The exception was residential refinancings, which continued to decline. Demand for other residential loans was mixed, according to contacts. Demand for consumer, business and commercial real estate loans was unchanged at good levels. Construction and Real Estate Construction activity was mixed, with rising commercial building offsetting slower new home construction. New and existing home sales have softened from the record-setting pace of the second quarter, but contacts remained optimistic about the rest of the year. Strong rental demand for office space coupled with low vacancies continued to push up rents, and several office projects are slated to break ground by year-end, according to contacts. Warehouse and retail construction activity picked up, while apartment construction held steady. Energy Energy activity continued to rise over the past six weeks. Offshore drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico was reported to be strong, and some contacts in Texas and Louisiana said a lack of skilled workers was making it difficult to form drilling crews. Strong domestic demand for oil products kept crude oil prices relatively high. Despite a decline in natural gas prices, natural gas still accounts for the majority of drilling activity, according to contacts. Agriculture Heavy rains improved agricultural conditions across most of the District, although drought remains a problem. Subsoil moisture and pasture conditions are better, and haying activity has increased. Still, cotton and corn production are expected to be roughly 30 percent below last year, and livestock liquidation continues, albeit at a slower pace.