General Business Conditions The growth in District business activity appears to have moderated recently. Although most industries continue to report high levels of production and employment, construction activity has slackened noticeably, mostly because of a decline in residential housing construction. Commercial construction remains generally strong, however. Unemployment is still remarkably low in most parts of the District, but there is little evidence wage growth is rising. Wage gains for existing employees reportedly remain in the 2 percent to 3 percent range. A few firms, however, note that the cost of new hires is accelerating, creating concern that these wage increases may spill into existing labor agreements. Agriculture Crop conditions are generally good, though crops are still under-developed for this late in the season. While 81 percent of Ohio's corn crop is rated fair-to-excellent, corn crop development is about two to three weeks behind schedule. Similar reports are heard for the state's soybean crop. The oat harvest was nearly complete as of late August, but hay cutting is behind schedule. In Kentucky, the soybean crop is considered "promising," with a solid 18 percent rated as excellent. Also, the recent hot and dry weather has been beneficial to the state's tobacco crop. Corn development in Pennsylvania is near normal for the season. Manufacturing The District's industrial sector has leveled off, with production, employment, and orders all reportedly at high levels. Auto and auto- related production remains generally strong, despite increased concern about a possible UAW strike this fall. Steel production has fallen somewhat from its extremely strong first-quarter level, but is still running 1 percent or more above this time last year. Steel orders are also reported to be good. Orders growth remains strong for machinery. Orders softness continues to be felt in heavy truck manufacturing, however, and producers anticipate additional production cutbacks by year's end. Employment conditions in manufacturing are holding firm. Hours have come down a bit from earlier in the year, and hiring rates are considered about average. While skilled labor shortages are still reported to be a problem, the situation does not seem to have worsened much in the past few months. Cost pressures are also said to be relatively light. Cold-rolled and scrap steel prices have risen, as have a variety of chemical prices, but downward price adjustments are noted for paper and wood products. General Retailing and Autos Fourth District retailers report mixed results, with no significant overall change in sales activity from earlier in the summer. Retail spending has picked up in the area of children's apparel and is holding strong or women's and men's sportswear. Sales of household items, including furniture and major appliances, continue to disappoint District retailers. General retail inventories are in good condition and prices remain steady. Competition for qualified workers remains a problem for most retailers and hiring difficulties are noted. District auto sales slowed somewhat in July and August, although year-to-date sales are still relatively strong. Most dealers attributed the recent downturn to lean inventories and slack fleet activity. While a few dealers see waning consumer demand as a contributing factor, dealer optimism over the new model year is high. Banking and Credit Loan demand is holding steady at a relatively high level, although the mix of credit extensions has changed somewhat in the past few months. Commercial credit demand is generally stronger than consumer credit, with the possible exception of credit card debt, which continues to rise at a moderate pace. Business credit growth appears to be funding business expansion, while loans for inventories have been negligible. Most categories of household debt, including new auto credit and home equity loans, are little changed from earlier in the summer. The strength of new mortgage loans varies by region. A number of District bankers continue to see a deterioration in household balance sheets. Still, while loan quality has fallen and delinquencies continue to rise, most bankers report relatively healthy credit markets.