Summary The Seventh District economy continued to expand at a moderate rate in August. Retail sales improved from July's pace, with several retailers citing improved back-to-school sales from a year ago. Commercial construction activity picked up across the District, while residential activity varied from state to state. Manufacturing activity remained robust, but reports were mixed as to whether the sector was gaining or losing momentum. Overall bank lending remained strong, despite reports of a decrease in mortgage lending. Labor markets continued to be tighter than the nation as a whole, but wage pressures remained subdued. High grain prices and poor quality forage are cutting milk production. Retail sales Retail sales improved moderately from July to August and were up from one year ago. Several large retailers attributed sales gains to year-over-year improvements in "back-to-school" items, most notably apparel. Most retailers expect this strength to carry into September with "back-at-school" sales. Results from a Michigan survey suggested that these sales patterns were similar for small retailers. One major retailer pointed out that August's year- over-year sales comparisons may be distorted because of exceptionally strong sales of air conditioners and other hot-weather related items in the Midwest last year. This retailer noted that sales of appliances (other than air conditioners) remained strong, while electronics sales (other than computers) were soft in August. Computer sales were reported to be strengthening, in part due to improved back-to-school sales. However, a major discount chain reported that sales in District states were at or below expectations, with weakness in big-ticket items, small appliances, electronics, etc., prompting plans to increase price discounting over the next three months. Housing/construction While overall construction activity remained robust during July and August, residential housing activity was mixed. Recent data releases showed that Midwest sales of new and existing homes increased significantly in July, but reports from District contacts varied widely from state to state. A builder in one large metro area described activity as "the best (residential housing) market in 20 years," while a contact in another area reported that "(unsold) inventory is now a concern." A national survey of home builders suggests that sales of new homes in the Midwest were down in August and virtually every banker contacted reported that mortgage lending activity decreased. While most areas reported pockets of both increasing and decreasing residential building activity, contacts in Michigan reported increasing activity throughout the state. Commercial building activity was reportedly strong and increasing throughout the District in July and August. One lumber supplier reported that strength in commercial construction was responsible for shortages of building materials, most notably wallboard. This source also noted that a shortened summer building season (resulting from inclement weather in much of May and June) strained lumber supplies and prices increased significantly, reaching a two-year high. However, competition among suppliers to maintain market share is preventing them from passing along the entire cost increase to builders, whose margins have already been squeezed. In addition, the price increases are not expected to endure. Manufacturing Activity Manufacturing activity remained at a very high level in July and August, but views were mixed about whether momentum was building or slowing. Purchasing managers indexes across the District jumped in August, including one metro area which had been signaling flat activity for several months. These increases were led by strong gains in new orders and production. Most manufacturers contacted, however, reported that demand was flat or moderating in July and early August. Steel producers reported that mills were at effective capacity in August, and order books were full through November. One medium-sized machine tool producer noted a jump in orders in July from a year ago, while another said orders have been below year-ago levels for several months. A producer of heavy construction equipment noted an increase in orders, after encouraging customers to place their year-end orders early to ensure production and on-time delivery. Otherwise, their order intake continued to slow across most market segments. An appliance producer reported that domestic shipments slowed in July and August from their stronger-than-expected pace earlier in the year. Except for recently announced steel price increases, which appear to be sticking, neither purchasing managers surveys nor individual reports suggested any recent increase in price pressures. Banking Activity Reports from bankers generally indicated that lending activity remained strong in July and August. Several Michigan banks reported that business lending continued to post solid gains. Recent merger and acquisition activity in the state increased the demand for capital equipment-based loans. Bankers in other areas, however, noted recent flattening in business lending from very strong growth earlier in the year. A major regional bank cited double-digit growth in consumer loans from a year ago. Rising delinquency rates, while still low, encouraged some smaller banks to shift their emphasis from installment loans, including credit cards, to equity loans. Labor markets Labor markets remained tighter in the District than in the nation as a whole, with the unemployment rate in July virtually unchanged for the fifth straight month. Manufacturing employment continued its slight decline in July, but purchasing managers surveys suggested that payrolls were again increasing in August. Temporary help agencies also reported that "the industrial segment of the business is tightening up." Shortages of construction, skilled clerical, and technology workers persisted throughout the District. Despite the tight conditions, most contacts reported no discernible acceleration in wage pressures. One survey of small retailers in Michigan, however, suggested that smaller firms across the state were raising their starting wages to attract qualified workers. The survey also noted that the added costs were being absorbed by the retailers, rather than passed on to consumers. Agriculture Corn prices remained high in August, but down sharply from the very high levels of late spring, early summer. The extreme tightness in old-crop supplies was being overcome by cancellations and deferrals in export orders, the curtailed operations of many processors (especially ethanol plants), the use of alternative grains for feeding livestock, and regional imports of newly harvested grain from southern states. New crop prospects remained mixed, with sizable portions of the District's late-planted corn and soybean crops in a close race to reach maturity prior to normal first-frost dates. Meanwhile, evidence of scaled-back production among the District's dairy farmers continued to mount. Milk production during June and July was down 5.5 percent in District states and down 2.1 percent elsewhere. The cuts reflect fewer dairy cows and less output per cow. High grain (feed) prices and poor quality forage accounted for the abnormal decline in the productivity of dairy cows.