Overview The pace of economic activity in the Tenth District is relatively slow. Retailers report a slight recent improvement in sales, as do auto dealers, and most manufacturing respondents report high capacity use rates. While retail inventories are larger than desired, manufacturing materials inventories are generally satisfactory. Housing activity is fairly stable, and home mortgage demand at savings and loan institutions is relatively weak. Loan demand at district commercial banks has been nearly constant recently, while deposits have grown modestly. While some parts of the district were severely affected by drought, higher prices and near-normal crop yields have maintained farm income in other parts. Retail Sales Retailers generally report weak sales compared with a year ago, but some note a slight improvement from earlier this year. A number of respondents attribute the recent improvement to greater promotional efforts. Promotional efforts have also helped hold down price increases. Retailers generally have inventories that are larger than desired, and are trying to trim them. Efforts to trim inventories are expected to continue, except for seasonal increases. Most respondents expect sales increases for the rest of the year to be moderate at best. Automobile Sales Most automobile dealers report steady or improved sales over the past month. Inventories are expanding as dealers receive 1989 models. Dealers expect sales to be stable or up slightly during the remainder of the year. Manufacturing Most respondents report that materials inputs continue to be readily available, and some shortening of lead times has occurred. The pace of price increases for inputs has apparently slowed somewhat. Most respondents are satisfied with their inventory levels, after some recent trimming. Little further change in inventories is planned. Capacity use rates are high for most respondents, but no real bottleneck problems were reported. Housing Activity and Finance Activity in the housing sector remains fairly stable. Homebuilders report housing starts at or above both last month's and last year's levels. Single-family construction has improved slightly, while multi-family construction continues to be weak. New home sales are stable with some increases in inventories of new homes. No problems are reported regarding materials availability or delivery times. Most savings and loan respondents report that savings deposit inflows are near year-ago and month-ago levels. Respondents expect inflows to remain steady or increase slightly during the reminder of 1988. In general, mortgage activity has been weak, and this weakness is expected to continue through yearend. Mortgage rates have moved in a narrow range recently and are expected to remain near current levels for the rest of the year. Banking District bankers report little change in banking condition during the past month. Overall loan demand rained nearly constant, although demand for residential and commercial real estate loans rose slightly. The bankers report that the recent round of lending rate increases is drawing to a close. Most respondents held their prime lending rate steady the past month and expect no change in the near future. A few bankers, however, either recently increased their prime lending rate by 25 to 50 points or expect a slight increase. Consumer lending rates were constant to slightly higher during the month. Little change in consumer rates is expected in the near term. On average, deposits grew modestly at the respondent banks. Several bankers report a shift in savings from Money Market Deposit Accounts to time and savings certificates and deposits bearing a slightly higher rate of return. Agriculture Crop conditions vary widely across the district as winter wheat seeding nears completion and row crop harvest continues. Rainfall slowed the harvest of row crops during the latter part of September, but the harvest is now progressing well across most of the district. Irrigated crops are generally in very good condition throughout the district, and normal yields are expected. Dryland corn and soybeans in eastern Nebraska and northern Missouri were severely affected by the drought, and yields will be well below normal. Milo yields in Nebraska are down due to a severe greenbug infestation. In other areas of the district, however, near-normal crop yields and higher prices are helping to maintain farm incomes. On balance, district bankers report that the rate of farmer participation in the wheat price-support program is nearly unchanged from last year's rate. On one hand, a sharply higher market price for wheat has diminished the incentive for farmers to participate in the federal price support program for wheat. On the ether hand, a reduction in the percentage of wheat base acres that program participants must hold out of production encourages program participation. The new winter wheat crop received beneficial September rains that promoted development of winter wheat pastures, but additional rainfall will be required to ensure adequate grazing conditions in many areas. In the absence of adequate wheat pastures, feed stocks could be strained during a severe winter. Ranchers would then be forced to buy high-priced feed or liquidate herds. At present, most district ranchers plan to maintain herds through the winter in anticipation of higher cattle prices next spring.