Ninth District economic conditions have remained stable at satisfactory levels. Unemployment rates have not changed much. Consumer spending has been fairly healthy while inflation rates continued to be moderate. Conditions in resource-related industries have improved, and those in agriculture have remained largely unchanged. Labor Markets The employment situation has been reasonably good throughout the district. Between July and August, Minnesota's unemployment rate rose only one-tenth of a percentage point, to 3.6 percent; this is substantially lower than the 5 percent rate of a year earlier. In July, the help-wanted advertising index for the Minneapolis-St. Paul area was up 9.4 percent from a year earlier. South Dakota's July unemployment rate was unchanged from its year-ago rate of 3.7 percent. However, initial claims for unemployment insurance in that state were down 30.9 percent from a year ago. The unemployment rate in North Dakota, at 4.1 percent in July, was three-tenths of a percentage point lower than a year earlier. In Montana, the need for fire fighters substantially improved employment prospects. And in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, the unemployment rate was down to 5.7 percent in July, a full percentage point below a year earlier. Consumer Spending Consumer spending on general merchandise has remained strong, and the prospects are promising. One retailer notes that, in the January-August period, sales at comparable stores were 25 percent ahead of a year earlier. Another retailer notes that, after a soft year in 1987, apparel sales are coming back strongly. Inventories are at acceptable levels. Retailers are optimistic about this year's Christmas sales. Motor vehicles have been selling well. In particular, truck and van sales are reported to be up sharply over last year. One manufacturer of a domestic line reports that, even at full capacity, demand cannot be met. New models are generally expected to sell well. Housing activity has been mixed. The number of homes sold in August in the Twin Cities area was 12.4 percent below the banner sales of a year ago. However, new housing permits issued in the whole state of Minnesota were up 9 percent during that period. Tourist spending has also continued to increase. Despite the drought, the fall colors are an attractive sight throughout the district. Most areas contacted in Minnesota indicate good resort business, as do those in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. In Montana, however, the fire at Yellowstone has kept the number of August tourists 7 percent below a year ago. Still, one observer thinks that a sizable number of tourists have actually been attracted by the fire. Consumer Prices Consumer price increases have been moderate. Retailers report some price increases as they switch increasingly from foreign to domestic buying of general merchandise. However, one retailer expects to see a slight decrease in prices of imported apparel. The drought has not affected food prices very much yet. In June, the consumer price index for the Twin Cities area was 6 percent above a year earlier. Resource-Related Industries Conditions in the district's resource-related industries have improved. Strikes in the wood products sector of Montana have ended. Copper mining in Montana is also picking up, with one analyst suggesting that, in the Butte area, 2,500 new jobs might be added through 1989. Approximately 2,500 new jobs have already been added in the last two years by gold mining operations in Montana. It the copper forecast is accurate, mining employment in Montana will reach 1983's high level. The timber industry in Michigan's Upper Peninsula is also reporting a good year, with a new mill due to begin operating in 1990 and other mills significantly upgrading their facilities. Agriculture If rainfall returns to or exceeds normal levels, the effects of the drought on the district's agriculture sector may be milder than expected. Drought aid will significantly mitigate the effects on farmers' incomes. One analyst suggests that a farmer who normally expects to gross $139 per acre will instead receive $137 per acre in aid if the farmer's crop was completely destroyed. Low water levels in eastern Montana, western North Dakota, and northwestern South Dakota continue to pose same problems for cattle ranchers. But the sugar beet crop in North Dakota and Minnesota is reported to be excellent in spite of heavy rains at harvest time.