Summary The economy of the Twelfth District continues to grow, with little sign of a change in direction. Growth remains strong in the Pacific Northwest and California, and the weaker economies in other parts of the District show few signs of further slowing. The Business Sentiment survey reveals that respondents are becoming more pessimistic about future national growth and unemployment, but they report few signs of an impending slowdown. Retail sales improved in September, although they remain generally lackluster. Construction has been strong in the Northwest, while slow in Arizona and Utah. Housing prices continue to boom in Southern California, Washington, and Oregon, although some slowing of sales is reported in Northern California. Manufacturing remains strong in aircraft, electronics, paper, aluminum, and machinery. Output in forest products industries has slowed, but rains at a high level. Agriculture remains strong in the District, while gains in refining profits have offset the negative effect of falling oil prices on production in the energy sector. Business Sentiment Continuing the trend reported last month, respondents have become more pessimistic about GNP growth. Over 40 percent of the respondents to the Twelfth District Sentiment Survey expect growth to slow, up from 34 percent in September. Expectations about housing starts remain low, with 83 percent anticipating further slowing, and no respondents anticipating an improvement. Concern about inflation has moderated since the last report, although concern about unemployment is increasing. Despite a drop in expectations about overall growth, the respondents did not report any immediate signs of slowing in the regional economy. The rapidly growing Northwest is expected to continue to boom, while the slower-growing areas see no signs of further slowing. Retail Sales Retail sales improved in the District in September from August levels, but overall activity remains sluggish. Retailers report softer-than-expected sales in September, although one respondent in Washington reports a 14 percent rise in retail sales over last year. Classified advertising volumes continue to drop in Los Angeles and in the nation, indicating a slowdown in consumer spending and the consolidation of the industry. Upward price pressure continues to appear in imported products, but the soft retail market is making it difficult to make price increases stick at the retail level. Inventories are reported to be in line with desired levels. Retailers note some problems attracting qualified sales people, and register concern about a possible increase in the minimum wage. Automobile dealers report price increases of 4 to 5 percent on both domestic and imported 1989 cars. A substantial number of 1988 models remain in dealer inventories, and GM has extended its rebates to eliminate the surplus. One respondent reports fairly high sales of new cars and light trucks in the Southern California area. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity continues to exhibit strength, particularly in the Pacific Northwest. Pulp and paper production remains strong, although some slowing in growth is being noted and some inventories are rising. Several respondents report significant increases in farm equipment purchases, with some shortages evident. Moreover construction equipment sales are reported strong in Utah. The slowing expansion of the wood products industry is being offset by continued expansion of aerospace, aluminum, shipping, and electronic industries in the Northwest, with Boeing near capacity and delivery times lengthening. Some concern about semiconductor demand is being voiced in the San Francisco area, and Arizona respondents remain concerned about the effect of IBM's plant closure. Food processing and canning industries are expanding in the District. Construction Construction and real estate activity are highly variable in the District. Construction has been strong this past summer in Washington and Oregon, and housing prices have increased sharply in Southern California. The strength of the Washington economy is now boosting prices in that region as well. Some slowing of sales has been noted in the San Francisco area. In contrast, construction in Arizona is called the slowest in 15 years, and construction, other than for road building, remains depressed in Utah. Resource Industries Agriculture has had a strong year in the District. Yields in most areas are average or down mildly, but the higher prices have more than compensated. Inventories of table grapes are high, the tomato crop has been damaged by heat, and almonds have been bothered by insects, but prices have been strong. Livestock producers report strong prices, although feedlot producers are losing profits to higher feed costs. The wood products industry is still strong, although production of lumber and plywood has begun to fall. Excessive fire danger and environmental restrictions are limiting access to forests, decreasing the supply of logs. The shortage of logs has boosted prices in the Northwest. In the energy sector, the recent drop in oil prices has had little negative impact so far. Drillers are waiting to see if the lower price persists before changing plans, while refiners and retailers are enjoying the highest margins in years. Financial Sector Strong competition among banks for quality loans continues to be reported in the District, particularly in the Northwest and California. Conditions are improving in agricultural areas, with a drop in non-performing loans and improved asset quality. Loan growth is above expectations in Washington. Several respondents cited problems competing with below-market offers by Savings and Loan institutions.