Summary Business activity in the District is expanding, overall, with many manufacturers reporting strength tied to rising exports, improved competitiveness with imports, and rising capital spending. Continued slow car sales are partly offset by the expanding truck market. Purchasing managers reports for District metro areas continue robust, though our contact with the Milwaukee group was concerned about prospects for early 1988. Employment continued to trend upward in District states through November, but the effects of widening layoffs, particularly in autos, cut Michigan employment in December and probably in January. Demand for steel has shown no letup from the strong pace of much of last year. Construction activity appears to be holding up in the District. Several lines of consumer goods are reported selling well, helped by cold weather and promotions. Recent USDA reports have firmed 1988 price prospects for most District farm commodities. Purchasing Managers December purchasing managers' surveys in the Chicago, Indianapolis, and Milwaukee areas show continued expansion. The Chicago survey indicates strong growth in production, orders, and backlogs as well as delays in filling orders and further price increases. Activity in the Indianapolis area is described as still moving along briskly, with continued strength in the area's industrial sector. Orders and backlogs continued to rise in the Milwaukee area, though increases were not as widespread as earlier. The slower rise is thought to be mostly seasonal, but our contact was concerned that orders placed in response to lengthening lead times and rising prices could quickly evaporate if the late 1987 slowdown in additions to bookings proves to be more than seasonal. Employment District state' payroll employment continued to expand through November, but the year-to-date rise trailed that in the U.S., with slower gains concentrated in Michigan and Illinois. Manufacturing employment in Michigan was below a year earlier, reflecting layoffs at auto assembly and parts plants, and cuts in related industries. With manufacturing payroll employment in Michigan showing relatively large gains, however, total nonfarm payrolls in November were about 1 percent above a year earlier. The household survey also shows total Michigan employment above a year earlier in November, but December was lower. Sources in Michigan indicate that the weaker employment situation in December principally reflects announced layoffs. Some of those who reported themselves as laid off in the December household survey are thought to have taken accrued vacation time initially, and consequently to have been counted as employed in the December payroll figures. Other companies in the District which have recently announced employment cuts include financial service firms in Chicago, and an appliance manufacturing plant in Michigan which closed and shifted production to plants outside the District. Corporate staffs in Chicago were cut by a large railroad, a maker of building materials, and a diversified producer of consumer products. GM's Electromotive Division plans to cut employment by 2,000 to 2,300 at its Chicago-area plant, one of only two U.S. plants that build new locomotives, and shift locomotive production to Canada. Motor Vehicles Auto production plans have been trimmed, bringing first quarter schedules more in line with analysts' expectations based on fourth quarter sales trends. Announced cuts in assembly schedules are feeding back to parts plants. In addition to temporary closings to control inventories, five Michigan auto assembly and parts plants were closed permanently in December. In contrast, total truck output in the first quarter is projected at a record level, for any quarter, in line with the strength in sales. Steel Demand for steel bounced back strongly following normal year-end customer shutdowns. Lead times are strengthening, with the first quarter booked and delivery times for orders currently placed extending into the second quarter. Demand from appliance makers is holding up. Structural steel fabricators generally are quite active, though the level of activity varies considerably among geographic areas. Sales people foresee no letup in incoming contracts. The Chicago market is described as active with numerous small and medium-size orders. Projects being put out for bid indicate strength in spending on shopping centers and power plants. Warehouse business, generally for smaller projects, was highest ever last year and remained extremely strong through year-end. Upward price pressures continue. Other Manufacturing Reports from other manufacturers are generally quite positive. Shipments of corrugated containers in North Central states were very strong in November, and one company's results suggest that the industry uptrend continued in December. Seasonal closings in late 1987 at box plants' customers were described as normal, with no extended shutdowns reported. A linerboard price increase announced for February is expected to go through without resistance. Makers of capital goods and equipment for installation in new construction projects are seeing strong business. Other lines noted by our sources as showing good gains include medical supplies, printing and publishing supplies, abrasives used in industry and construction, and materials for highway signs. Construction and Real Estate Construction activity continues at a high level in District states, apart from the normal seasonal slowing. (Comparisons of early 1988 with year ago will appear weak because of last winter's unusually mild weather.) Nonresidential construction contracts in District states, in square feet, were 14 percent above a year earlier in the first 11 months of 1987, and residential contracts were 4 percent higher, both stronger performances than the U.S. Demand for building materials, including cement and gypsum board, showed stronger gains in the District than the nation. New high-rise buildings continue to be announced for downtown Chicago. Paving activity will be strong in the Chicago area in 1988. Home prices in the metro area are estimated to be about 10 percent above a year earlier. Consumer Spending December ales were satisfactory, in the view of a major general merchandise retailer. Sales in early 1988 started strong, helped by cold weather as well as promotional activity. Lines showing good gains include home improvement, household appliances, personal care, hardware (especially cordless tools), furniture, and children's apparel. Retail inventories are regarded as in good shape.