Overview Little improvement is apparent in the Tenth District economy in spite of relatively high farm income in 1987. Christmas retail sales were generally higher than a year earlier but lower than expected, and new car sales are slow. Manufacturers' input prices continue to rise moderately. If recent world oil market conditions continue, some of the 1987 improvement in the district energy industry may be eroded. Home mortgage demand and residential construction activity both remain weak. Loan demand and deposits at commercial banks are both up slightly. Agricultural banks report an improvement in yearend loan repayment rates. Retail Sales Tenth District retailers report sales equal to or above, year-ago levels, and unchanged or slightly improved over the past three months. Christmas sales were generally higher than a year ago but lower than expected. Sales of apparel, cosmetics, and other soft goods are strong while durable sales are weak. Nearly all respondents plan to trim inventories or hold them at present levels. Expectations for future sales are cautiously optimistic and only small price increases are anticipated in the next few months. Automobile Sales Automobile dealers generally report that sales were slow in December. Although dealers desire leaner inventories, slow sales are keeping inventories steady. Adequate financing is available for both dealer inventories and customer purchases. Overall, dealers are hopeful that 1988 sales will be near 1987 levels. Purchasing Agents Purchasing agents report that their input prices are moderately higher than a year ago. The steepest price increases in the last several months have been for steel-related inputs and further increases are expected for these inputs in the near term. Most materials are readily available, although quality steel materials are reported to be in short supply. Respondents are generally satisfied with current inventory levels and most report no unusual bottlenecks in labor or plant capacity. Energy The inability of OPEC to agree on production quotas in December 1987 has caused world oil prices to weaken and become more volatile. If these market conditions continue, some of the stability established in the district's energy industry during 1987 could begin to erode. The average weekly number of operating drilling rigs in the Tenth District increased only slightly from 360 in November to 363 in December, about 23 percent above the average weekly level a year earlier but less than one-fourth its 1982 peak. Housing Activity and Finance Area homebuilders report that housing starts are below both last year's and last month's levels. Multi-family construction is expected to weaken further but single-family construction is expected to stabilize. Most homebuilders report steady sales of new homes. Respondents express no immediate or future problems regarding materials prices, availability, or delivery times. District savings institutions generally report that savings deposit inflows are somewhat above year-ago levels. Deposit inflows have changed little since November and are expected to improve slightly during the first quarter. Mortgage demand remains weak, although some respondents foresee a pickup in activity in the spring. Mortgage rates have been stable, with little change expected in the near term. Banking Respondents at district banks report slightly higher total loan demand for the month. Demand for commercial and industrial loans and consumer loans is up slightly, while demand for residential and commercial real estate loans and agricultural loans is unchanged on average. The prime rate remains unchanged among all respondents, with only one respondent expecting a slight decline in the future. Consumer loan rates are unchanged and expected to remain at current levels. Total deposits rose slightly because of small increases in the demand for conventional and super NOW accounts, demand deposits, MMDAs, and small time deposits. Large CDs were down slightly, while IRAs and passbook savings accounts were about unchanged. Agriculture Strong livestock prices, a good fall harvest and substantial government payments produced relatively high farm incomes for 1987. As a result, 1987 year-end loan repayment rates at agricultural banks were generally high, showing some improvement over a year ago. Some bankers also report that they expect borrowings for 1988 to be down, as cautious farm borrowers are putting more cash earnings into operations. Most agricultural lenders continue to look for sound borrowers as loanable funds remain readily available and demand for loans weakens. Farm machinery sales are also beginning to reflect an improved farm income situation in the district. After two relatively stable years for farm incomes, some operators are now upgrading worn equipment. The used machinery market has shown more activity, but high prices and a cautious outlook are still keeping many farmers out of the new equipment market. Although livestock prices have contributed significantly to the strength in farm income, there has not been much expansion in district livestock operations. Feedlots in the region remain full, but cow/calf operators are reluctant to hold back high priced heifers to increase breeding herds. High cattle prices have also forced the price of replacement animals up, causing some stocker cattle operations to actually reduce herds. Most district hog growers have been running at capacity, but there has been little facilities expansion. The recent downturn in hog prices has not yet had a visible effect on district hog operations.