Overview Once again, the District economy is giving off mixed signals. Employment is growing on balance, but losses continue to occur in several industries. Some of those job losses, however, are related to special factors and do not reflect the state of business activity per se. Other measures of activity in the manufacturing sector are also mixed, but in several cases suggest an end of persistent past declines, and even some unexpected gains. In particular, the textile and furniture industries seem likely to have added jobs in recent weeks in response to some improvement in orders and shipments. The manufacturing sector may have turned a corner, at least in terms of no longer representing a drag on overall activity. The retail sector is generally holding the gains it posted throughout the year, but further gains have been more modest of late. Construction remains consistently and uniformly strong, as do sales of houses. Manufacturing There are scattered reports of recent gains in some hitherto steadily declining segments of the manufacturing sector. Notably, the furniture and textile groups appear to have increased employment in recent weeks, reversing a protracted decline. On the other hand, some industries which had formerly been sources of strength may have given ground recently. In this category would be some types of building materials, chemicals, and electrical machinery. Also, there is some seasonal weakness in some sectors. Declines attributable to current or expected business conditions do not account for all of this weakness, however. Some chemical plants are restricting activity because of the fear of leaks, and one major manufacturing employer is phasing out production in anticipation of relocating the facility. On balance, the sector appears to be gaining since reports of improved order and shipment performance outnumber reports of deterioration. For the most part, however, activity levels are reported to be stable. Recent evidence suggests that many manufacturers still find plant and equipment capacity excessive, and that they are reluctant to undertake any expansion effort. Investment projects that are getting under way are productivity enhancing rather than intentional additions to capacity. Total coal production continues to lag behind last year's record levels, although consumption by electric utilities is well ahead of last year's pace. Lower inventories and increased imports are making up much of the difference. Nonetheless, some areas of the District are currently producing at very high levels. Consumer Activity Gains in consumer activity, at least as indicated by retail sales, have not matched those of August by early indications. Sales remain strong compared to early in the year, but still fall short of retailers' expectations. There appears to be little inclination on the part of dealers to build stocks, although there is little apparent concern over current inventory levels. Automobile sales remain an area of considerable strength, and tourist spending, at least in some areas, seems to have turned in a very good year. Housing and Construction The entire private construction sector is still lending substantial strength to the District economy. Commercial construction already under way is sufficient to boost the economy for some months to come. Our impression is that perhaps fewer projects are getting under way than during most of the last several years, but it is certainly not clear that that is the case. The housing sector, in any event, is taking up whatever slack there may be elsewhere. New construction has shown no signs of slowing, and houses coming on the market continue to move well, extremely well in some areas. Agriculture Crop harvesting in the Fifth District is well under way due to favorable weather conditions during August and September While yield levels on most major field crops are not expected to match the record levels being forecast for the U.S. overall, large harvests are nevertheless expected. Price levels for field crops, as well as prices for other agricultural commodities such as tobacco, remain depressed with little relief expected in the near term. Cash receipt levels are likely to fall below those of 1984 causing continued stress to the financial position of District farmers. The Financial Sector By and large, responses from the financial institutions suggest continued across-the-board strength in lending activity, and most institutions apparently look for continued activity at or slightly above present levels. One interesting point made by several respondents concerned the effects of the recent activity in the automobile markets. Respondents suggest that auto loans at financial institutions have been exceedingly weak as a result of the financing arrangements available from dealers and manufacturers in recent months. As a result, at least in some consumer-oriented institutions, loan-to-deposit ratios have fallen below desired levels. In any event, institutions seem confident of their ability to fund loan demand even at current levels, since deposit flows continue strong.