Broadly-based yardsticks of economic activity indicate a mixed performance of the Southeast economy in late summer. Employment growth exceeded labor force growth, reducing the region's jobless rate. Manufacturing employment showed a respectable increase in August, with transportation equipment responsible for much of the growth. Consumer spending is up from a year ago. However, September retail sales were up only moderately from August as consumers gave a lukewarm response to sales promotions. Construction of single-family housing is strong but signs of weakness have surfaced in multifamily, commercial and office construction. The pace of loan demand is slackening despite an uptick in business loans in September. Tourism has flattened somewhat around the region. While carpet mills are increasing employment, owing to strong demand and low susceptibility to imports, weakness persists in other textiles and apparel, petrochemicals, and agriculture. Employment and Industry Labor markets conditions improved since midsummer. Employment growth exceeded labor force increases in August, and the District unemployment rate fell 0.4 percent from July to 7.9 percent. Job gains in the services and trade sectors have more than offset employment declines in manufacturing. Chemicals and textiles manufacturing have accounted for the most job losses. Spokesmen for Louisiana's chemical industry now feel that employment may remain stable for the remainder of 1985. However, the high comparative value of the dollar continues to pressure regional textile and apparel producers and employment in apparel plants is continuing to decline. In contrast to apparel manufacturers, carpet mills are adding employees. The strong housing market and the commercial office building boom are chief sources of strength for the domestic carpet industry which is somewhat insulated from imports, owing to high shipping costs and customization. Orders for carpets are expected to remain strong through the end of the year. Contacts report that the region's paper and linerboard industry, unexpectedly weak in the first two quarters of 1985, is expected to strengthen towards the year's end. A record $8 billion in capital spending by U.S. paper mills is expected in 1985, 13 percent above 1984 levels. Expanding employment at auto and auto-related plants in the region is related to growing new car sales. Consumer Spending Retailers report moderately higher sales in September compared to a year ago. Although consumers' response to recent sales promotions was lukewarm, merchants report inventories to be leaner, but at desired levels. Sales at department stores continue to exceed the sales pace nationally. Women's apparel, sportswear and sports equipment, and furniture and housewares have been the best-selling items during the early fall period. Most retailers polled expect Christmas sales growth to match last year's increase despite fewer selling days between Thanksgiving and Christmas this year. Car sales strengthened throughout the region in September, and industry contacts are optimistic about the demand for cars for the remainder of 1985. Construction The general outlook for single-family sales and construction remains good. Declines in mortgage rates have boosted demand amid only modest advances in home prices. August building permits were up from the previous year by 28 percent in Nashville, 20 percent in Atlanta, and 13 percent in Miami. In the multifamily sector, by contrast, there is a large unsold inventory of condominiums and prices have been falling, especially in the south Florida market. Reflecting the surplus of condos, building permits for apartments are down sharply from last year. Signs of slowdown in office markets have surfaced in Atlanta and Miami. Below-normal absorption for the first half of 1985 and a significant volume of new space expected to enter the market in the fourth quarter, are likely to push up vacancy rates and place downward pressure on rents. Financial Services Although loan demand remains strong, a slowing trend is evident A slight uptick in business loan growth in September cushioned the slowing growth rates in real estate and consumer loans. About one- third of current real estate lending reflects mortgage refinancing. Bankers were smarting over substantial losses in auto loan volume to special low-rate dealer financing during September. Tourism After good growth during the summer, tourist activity seems to have waned a bit Air travel was mixed in August While most regional airports have reported healthy increases in passengers in 1985, some, including Atlanta's Hartsfield, have experienced slower growth in August. Visitor center registrations in September fell in 3 of the 4 states for which data are available. Hurricanes adversely affected the region's coastal areas during the month. Although occupancy levels at hotels and motels in overbuilt cities such as Orlando, Miami, and New Orleans remain weak, performance continues to strengthen in many other southeastern cities. Agriculture Crop prospects are generally favorable throughout the region and indicated yields are significantly above the average for the past five years. However, crop prices averaging 29 percent below year-ago levels indicate sharp reductions in income from 1985's increased production. Farm loans outstanding, as of mid-1985, were below year- ago levels reflecting both reduced lending and increased write-offs of bad loans. Loan write-offs will increase as a result of further reductions in crop income in 1985. The livestock sector, and especially broiler and turkey producers, will fare better than crop producers because product prices have not weakened as much as crops and feed costs have dropped with grain prices. On balance, southeastern farmers are doing somewhat better than farmers elsewhere in the country.