Summary Business activity in the Seventh District continues to lag the nation, with Illinois and Iowa, the leading agricultural states, particularly weak. Total employment in District states has risen more slowly than in the U.S. over the past twelve months, and since the turn of the year. Manufacturing employment has fallen more sharply in this region since the January peak than in the nation. Production of autos and light trucks, the only strong segments of manufacturing in the region, will do well to hold at current levels after the turn of the year. Chain store sales are somewhat improved, but still disappointing. Construction backlogs indicate that spending will stay near this year's much improved levels into 1986. Office overbuilding and uncertainties related to possible tax changes overhang these markets. Steel and most lines of mechanical capital goods remain depressed. Prices in most wholesale markets are under downward pressure. Inventories are generally low. So far, the decline in the dollar has not significantly increased demand for the region's manufactured goods, but analysts believe that a further significant decline will have the desired effect. District agriculture continues under severe financial stress. Large harvests will keep farm prices down. Employment Job markets in the District remain weak. In August, nonfarm payroll employment in the five-state region was 1.9 percent above last year, compared with a 3.3 percent rise for the nation. Illinois was up less than one percent and Iowa was down slightly. Manufacturing employment has declined, particularly in Illinois, Iowa, and Wisconsin. Motor Vehicles The unsustainable surge in auto deliveries from mid-August through early October, mainly in response to cut-rate financing, largely eliminated the overhang of 1985 models. Production plans remain strong through year-end. Major automakers have extended less generous programs of below-market financing into November. Analysts expect very competitive markets for motor vehicles over the next several years, with imports and domestic production of foreign producers taking a larger share of the U.S. market. The decline in the value of the dollar since February has somewhat reduced but far from eliminated the foreign producers' cost advantage. Sales of medium- and heavy-duty trucks have softened, and are expected to be down next year. Mediums have held up this year better than heavies. Several producers are scheduling 5.6 percent reductions in output for October. Steel Producers of steel continue to operate at unprofitable levels. The District's share of U.S. output has climbed somewhat in recent months. OECD exporters to this country are adhering to restraint agreements, but some others are not. Prices remain weak. Rising investment by steel producers is to cut costs, improve quality, and meet demand for particular types of steel, not to add to overall capacity. Strongest markets for steel include autos, appliances, office furniture, building components, and store fixtures. Most lines of machinery remain weak. A larger share of steel is moving through service centers, which aids user efforts to keep inventories low. Business Equipment Demand for most types of heavy capital equipment, including those important in the Seventh District, remains weak. Railcar orders are low, though orders for auto carrying cars have increased. The farm equipment market is dismal, and more layoffs of production workers have recently been announced. Machine tool demand has improved, particularly from auto makers and the defense industry, but remains far below good levels reached in the l970s. Sales of pumps, widely used in numerous industries, have increased from recession levels but remain well below the 1981 peak, and have flattened in recent months. A substantial further fall in the dollar's value in foreign currency markets is estimated to be needed to provide much help to makers of many lines of machinery. However, the rise in the Japanese yen reportedly has spurred interest of potential buyers in construction equipment of a major Seventh District producer. Nonresidential Construction Office building continues vigorous in the Chicago area, particularly downtown and in rapidly growing suburbs, despite widespread concerns about overbuilding. Construction of stores and rehab work also remain strong. Some of this activity is believed to reflect efforts to grandfather projects under existing tax incentives. Backlogs indicate continued strength in nonresidential building well into 1986. Activity on large projects is limited by availability of skilled workers and capacity to pour ready-mix, reduced during the last recession. District-wide, nonresidential building contracts this year have continued to recover from their 1982 low, but remain well short of peaks reached in the late 1970s. Highway work is at high levels in District states. Contract lettings in Illinois earlier this year were the largest ever. Residential Construction Home and apartment building in District states in 1985 is slightly ahead of a year earlier and nearly double the recession low in 1982. The rise this year has been most pronounced in southeast Michigan, reflecting continued strength in motor vehicles. Apartment construction in the Chicago area is stimulated by low vacancy rates and proposed reduction of federal tax incentives. Activity is also up in Indianapolis, but has been flat to down somewhat from 1984 in most other areas. Tighter FNMA regulations on mortgages are believed to be constraining new construction somewhat. Despite improvement since 1982, the pace of residential construction in the District is less than half of the 1978 peak. In contrast, sales of used housing are nearer to pre-recession levels. One of the largest Chicago-area realtors reports a record volume of resales in recent months. Prices have probably averaged between flat and up 3 to 4 percent over the past year (no good statistics are available), but with wide variation among areas. Consumer Spending Chain store sales in September and early October have been disappointing but somewhat better than prior to mid-August. Demand for durables has picked up. Apparel is slow, and would be helped by cold weather. Inventories are normal, possibly somewhat tight in some lines, in contrast with excesses which developed in late 1984 and early 1985. A high proportion of sales are on credit. Delinquencies are high but are not deteriorating further. A large area retailer reported that the decline in the value of the dollar will not be reflected in higher prices charged to consumers until mid-1986. Costs are "locked up" through spring. Japanese exporters are absorbing about half of the impact of the lower dollar in narrower margins. Agriculture Farm commodity prices remain very depressed, but crop prices may be at or near harvest-season lows. Livestock prices have recently recovered somewhat. Farm credit conditions continue to deteriorate. Farmland values declined sharply again in the third quarter, according to preliminary results from our latest survey of District agricultural bankers. A recent action by the governor of Iowa allows judges in that state to delay foreclosure proceedings against farm real estate mortgages for one year. Whether such a moratorium can be used against foreclosure proceedings initiated by Federal Land Banks, the leading supplier of farm mortgage credit to farmers in Iowa, is under debate.