Summary The District's economy remains weak overall albeit with pockets of improvement. The unemployment rate remains high and is exceptionally high in some areas, while manufacturing employment continues to decline. Department store sales are disappointing and auto sales have fallen to typical levels following the end of special financing programs. Manufacturing activity is increasing in the Cincinnati area but declining in northeast Ohio. The steel industry continues in difficulty with another major plant closing recently announced. The housing industry is showing further strengthening. Commercial bank loan demand has picked up somewhat. Labor Market Conditions Labor market conditions in the District remain soft. The Ohio unemployment rate was 9.4 percent (s.a.) in September, up 0.2 percentage points from a year ago. Manufacturing employment continues to decline. Some manufacturing firms report they are not laying off but are not replacing workers who leave. Retail Sales Major Fourth District department stores report that sales over the last six weeks were disappointing. Retailers point to exceptionally warm weather in September, which discouraged shopping, and an early Labor Day, which shortened the back-to-school shopping period, as sources of sluggishness. One analyst asserted that record auto sales, most of which were heavily financed, hurt department store sales because monthly car payments reduce disposable income available for other spending. All major stores expect improved sales in the fourth quarter, and therefore are not worried about the moderate inventory accumulation from recent slack sales. Auto dealers report that, as expected, sales fell during the first week of October as special financing on 1985 models ended. However, this decline was not as severe as many had expected and sales are described as "typical" for October. Expectations for the rest of 1985 are mixed, with some dealers building inventories in anticipation of strong sales through November, while others expect an immediate sharp decline in demand. Several dealers express confidence that major manufacturers are likely to re-establish low financing rates on virtually all models soon because bank loan rates for car purchases are far above the banks' cost of funds and these spreads are unlikely to diminish much in the near term. Manufacturing and Mining Manufacturing activity is uneven in the District and mining remains depressed. Manufacturers in the Cincinnati area report solid gains in production and new orders, slight increases in employment, and small declines in inventories. In contrast, manufacturers in northeast Ohio continue to report declines in production, new orders, and employment, and slight, probably involuntary, increases in inventories. A survey of manufacturing firms in midwestern states shows incoming orders falling for consumer non-durables but rising for consumer durables and capital goods. Purchasing managers generally report slight declines in prices paid for materials and components and in prices received for finished goods, and describe the current situation as a buyers' market. They expect no increase in inflation in the next six months. Demand is improving in the fabricated aluminum products business, but ingot aluminum prices are very low and continue to decline because of excess world smelting capacity. A major aluminum producer recently announced plans to diversify away from supplying the primary aluminum market. The steel industry continues to face weak demand and prices and strong competition from abroad. A major producer recently announced plans to close a 1,200 employee plant by yearend 1985 because of strong import competition and weak domestic demand for seamless tube. A strike continues at a major steel producer that is in Chapter 11 bankruptcy. High labor costs are claimed to be hampering some other firms. A major manufacturing firm recently cancelled a $185 million planned renovation of a mill because its union refused to make any concessions. Another firm is moving a plant out of this area because it is unable to obtain any concessions from its union. The coal mining industry in the District remains in distress with no relief in sight. Unemployment rates in the teens are common in coal mining counties in this District. Housing More optimism is evident in midwestern housing markets than last month because of lower mortgage rates, strong income gains, and availability of state-subsidized mortgage money. A major builder in this District reports strong gains in house construction in August and September, and if fourth quarter earnings are only fair, the firm will post record earnings for 1985. Despite the gains, the firm recently reduced slightly its forecast for housing demand in the fourth quarter and into 1986. Sales of existing houses have been strong in Dayton and Columbus, Ohio, encouraging builders there to begin again to construct houses on speculation. Asking prices on new houses are reported to be much higher than on equivalent existing houses. A major real estate firm reports new listings remain very strong and should sustain strong real estate broker activity into 1986. In Pittsburgh, lower interest rates have boosted existing home sales but it is still very much a buyers' market. A large mortgage lender in this District reports that as mortgage rates have fallen to what many borrowers view as the interest rate trough, the incidence of mortgage refinancings has increased. Mortgage refinancings represent one-third of total mortgage volume at this mortgage lender. Commercial Banking District loan demand has picked up somewhat. Loans outstanding in all major categories at large banks increased over the past month. Contacts report some pick up in business loan demand and expect a small increase in commercial and industrial lending during the fourth quarter. Despite weakness in auto lending due to the availability of cut-rate financing through auto companies, banks posted healthy gains in overall consumer loan volume during September. Unless these special financing deals are resumed on a broad scale, bankers anticipate further strength in consumer loans over the next few months.