Economic activity in the Tenth District is improving somewhat, apart from the weak farm sector. Retail sales are growing, with new car sales especially strong. Prices at retail and for factory inputs are generally stable. Inventories of industrial materials and retail goods are generally viewed as satisfactory. Residential construction activity varies widely across the district. Inflows to thrifts are increasing, with mortgage demand mixed to slightly higher. Loan demand at commercial banks is off slightly and deposits have increased slightly. Retail trade Retailers report a slight increase in sales this year over last year, and sales have been improving in the past three months. Clothing sales have been strong while home furnishing sales have been weak. Sales are expected to increase seasonally with the coming holidays. Prices are stable and are expected to remain so through year-end. Retailers have been trimming inventories but expect to add stocks in anticipation of seasonal sales increases. Automobile sales Automobile dealers report strong sales and large reductions in inventories of 1985 models, due largely to financing incentives. Inventories of 1986 models are beginning to grow. Some dealers are apprehensive about sales following the end of the interest rate incentive programs, but generally express optimism for 1986 model year sales. Purchasing agents Most purchasing agents report that input prices have remained nearly constant from a year ago and 3 months ago, and they generally expect input prices to remain constant through the end of the year. Few difficulties in obtaining materials are reported, and few new problems are expected to arise. Most firms report either that materials inventories are satisfactory or that they are reducing stocks. Changes are not expected to be large for the rest of the year. Housing activity and finance Homebuilders report that starts of single family houses have remained flat, but give mixed reports. about multi-family housing starts. Most area housebuilders expect starts for the remainder of the year to follow current trends. Sales of new homes, prices of new homes, and the inventory of unsold homes vary widely across reporting areas. Prices of materials are generally steady and material availability is good. Most savings and loan associations report a significant increase in savings inflows relative to last year. Several institutions reporting strong inflows also report aggressive campaigns to attract funds. Each respondent expects the current trend to continue. Respondents also report mixed to slightly higher mortgage demand and commitments. Somewhat lower demand is expected as winter approaches. Mortgage rates are constant and are expected to remain so. Most institutions have not reduced to $1000 their minimum deposit on money market deposit accounts, Super NOW accounts, and 7-31 day certificates of deposit. Those that have reduced their minimum deposit believe that deposits have grown as a result. Banking Respondents at Tenth District banks report loan demand has fallen slightly while deposits have risen slightly, on average, in the last month. Commercial and industrial loans and residential and commercial real estate loans fell slightly. Agricultural loans fell more sharply. Consumer loans, on the other hand, increased. The prime rate remained unchanged at nearly all of the banks surveyed. No change in the prime is expected in the near term. A majority of respondents report lower consumer lending rates. Although some respondents expect further easing in these rates, most report they did not anticipate any near term change. Deposits were slightly higher, on average, during the last month. Demand deposits, conventional NOW accounts, Super-NOW accounts, IRA and Keogh accounts, and small time deposits increased slightly. Money market deposit accounts and large CD's showed greater increases. Passbook savings accounts were down slightly. Agriculture Most areas in the district have more farm land on the market this fall, but very little appears to be changing hands. Farm land values continue to drift lower reflecting the weak farm economy. Some of the increased amount of land for sale results from higher foreclosure rates. Many lenders believe farm business failures will continue to run well above normal over the next six months. Bankers report that Farm Credit System outlets are adhering to fairly strict loan review guidelines, apparently leading to the sale of more farm assets. Fall grain harvest is underway in the district following a good wheat harvest. District farmers expect excellent corn, milo, and soybean yields. Nearly all farmers who are eligible are choosing to store their grain under Commodity Credit Corporation loans. In some areas, however, the number of farmers selling grain on the cash market is up somewhat from last fall. Though not a preferred option because of depressed grain prices, some farmers are pressed for cash to pay outstanding loans. Winter wheat is being seeded in the district, though planting is behind in some areas due to wet weather. In general, district wheat growers are not having serious problems obtaining credit, although conditions are somewhat tighter than a year ago. A higher percentage of growers in Oklahoma and Missouri are having problems than in other district states. In most cases, input suppliers are unwilling to provide inputs on credit.