Wages have increased moderately since the previous report. Contacts continued to link this to the tight labor market, raising wages to both attract new workers and limit turnover. Firms' reported ability to raise wages remains positively related to their size, with smaller firms struggling to increase wages. Arkansas, Illinois, and Missouri minimum wage increases have also come into effect with the new year. Uncertainty over how this will impact market wages of various positions has led some Missouri contacts to delay hiring for at least a month. An Arkansas contact reported multiple retailers are hiring fewer workers to counteract the increase in labor costs.
Construction contacts reported that prior price increases from tariffs on building materials, such as steel and aluminum, have now been passed on to consumers. Steel prices have increased by 12 percent since the previous report, but are down 26 percent year over year. Contacts in the retail and restaurant industries said that prices were unchanged, but that increasing food prices are putting cost pressures on businesses.
Residential construction activity increased slightly. There was a slight uptick in November permit activity across District MSAs relative to the previous month. Contacts in St. Louis reported that, while year-to-date permit levels are down slightly in the area compared with this time last year, builders remain confident that housing demand will remain robust due to low mortgage rates.
Commercial construction activity has increased modestly since the previous report. The number of commercial construction projects increased moderately from October to November across most of the states in the District. A contact in Little Rock noted that they had never seen a construction boom as strong and as long-lasting as the current one.
Natural resource extraction conditions improved modestly from October to November, with seasonally adjusted coal production increasing 1.8 percent. November production declined 7 percent from a year ago.
