Summary Although signals are mixed, economic activity in the Twelfth District appears to be slowing. Forest products, agriculture, mining, and high technology industries all remain depressed due to continued low prices. Retail spending, which helped sustain the region through its recent problems in the manufacturing and agricultural sectors, seems to be slowing down. Construction and real estate activity is mixed, varying both with location and with building type. Employment growth in trade and services appears to be continuing although growth in trade employment appears weaker than its previously high rate. Consumer Spending In general, retail spending in the Twelfth District appears sluggish. In a small sample of California department stores, one reported July sales up 2 percent from a year earlier and one reported flat sales. July sales at two other department stores were below last July's level, one by 18 percent. Even high priced stores have resorted to price cuts in order to move merchandise. Auto sales are reported to be weakening. For example, auto sales in Oregon were down 9 percent in June, and 43 percent of these sales were imports. Nevertheless, sales at restaurants, including fast food outlets, remain strong, and limited available data suggest that credit card sales and consumer borrowing likewise continue to grow. Manufacturing and Mining Sales of forest products continue to suffer from slow demand and Canadian competition. Inventories have generally fallen, but this is more the result of production cutbacks than strong sales. Although prices are rising slightly, they remain low and the falling dollar has yet to affect sales. Fires in the Pacific Northwest and Canada have curtailed cutting in these locations, which will hurt producers in Washington and Oregon but should help Alaska's troubled timber producers. The slump in high technology industries continues to reverberate throughout the Twelfth District. Layoffs, short work weeks, and suspension of investments continue unabated. Mining and oil activity likewise continues to be flat or down from year earlier levels, with no end in sight for the low prices which are responsible for the weakness. Further oil price reductions would benefit consumers as well as the transportation. agriculture, and tourism industries. However, oil producing regions would be hit hard. Alaska, which is heavily dependent on oil revenues, would suffer a particularly strong setback. Construction and Real Estate Construction activity, as measured by permits and starts, is up in most of the Twelfth District. However, activity appears weaker in Washington, Southern California and in Utah. Multifamily residential construction is particularly volatile and varies substantially by location. For example, multifamily permits, which had been rising in Utah, fell sharply in June, while in Oregon June multifamily permits were up 200 percent from their year earlier level. Sales of existing houses are either flat or slightly up in most markets. The Portland market is strong, with existing home sales in July 16 percent above their June level and 23 percent above the year earlier level. Particularly weak markets include condominiums and, in some localities, vacation homes. Agriculture Yields promise to be strong this year, leading to further price reductions. Pest problems, including the grasshopper infestation in Idaho, have affected specific areas but are unlikely to affect overall yields. Prices remain below their year-earlier levels for wheat, canning crops, grapes, almonds and cattle. Financial Sector Interest rate changes present a mixed picture, with some states reporting increases in fixed-rate mortgage and consumer loan interest rates and others reporting declines. Similarly, new mortgage loan volume is up in some states and down in others. Strong demand for mortgage refinancing throughout the Twelfth District is focused on refinancing fixed-rate mortgages at a lower fixed rate. Delinquency rates for credit card and consumer loans continue to rise in Utah, Idaho, and Nevada. Large loan losses at many financial institutions will prevent them from enjoying what would otherwise be one of their more profitable years.