Introduction This month's commentaries on economic developments by the twelve Federal Reserve banks suggest general stability, with neither accelerating growth nor significant deterioration as near term prospects. This is indicated in key words and phrases in district summaries: Boston, "retail sales improving, manufacturing in the doldrums"; New York, "little growth"; Philadelphia, "same as August"; Cleveland, "soft and uneven"; Richmond, no "broadbased improvement"; Atlanta, "healthy on balance"; Chicago, "no overall pickup or weakening"; St. Louis, "continues to lag"; Minneapolis, "a bit weaker"; Kansas City and Dallas, "sluggish"; and San Francisco, "signals are mixed". Among economic sectors, however, there are significant variations. Perhaps the most troubled sector, at present, is agriculture, with prices and income severely depressed. Total employment is growing moderately, but with great variation by region. Manufacturing output, overall, is about stable. Mining, including oil and gas development, is depressed. Retail sales are somewhat stronger, but mainly disappointing. Auto sales have been stimulated by special financing. Inventories are in fairly good balance, and all types of goods readily available. General price inflation is still in check, partly because of the heavy influx of imports of a wide range of goods. Business purchases of equipment are cautious. Residential construction and demand for building materials is vigorous. Nonresidential construction is strong, but with concern about overbuilding. Bountiful harvests arc pushing down farm prices and income, and causing increasing concern over farm credits. Interest rates have not changed much in recent weeks. Private credit demand is about stable, with mortgage and consumer loans growing, and business loans soft. Inflation Little change is expected in wholesale prices, which are held down by ample domestic capacity, large agricultural crops, weak oil and gas prices, import competition, and sluggish growth in total spending. Surveys in Kansas City, Richmond, and St. Louis suggest little change in input or selling prices of manufacturers, and only moderate increases at retail. Employment Several districts are not participating in the strong employment growth reported for the nation in recent months. Weakest job markets are in the Midwest, especially in the Chicago, Cleveland, and St. Louis districts. But even San Francisco reports widespread layoffs because of the slump in electronics. The strongest job markets may be in the Northeast, especially parts of' the Boston and New York districts. Consumer Spending Reports on retail sales are mixed. Boston, Philadelphia, and Richmond see improvement, while Kansas City and San Francisco find sales stable or down somewhat. Consumer price resistance and heavy promotion activity to move merchandise are common. Inventories, overall, seem to be in good condition, with increases in line with plans. Auto sales have responded strongly to cut rate financing programs, but Philadelphia reports concern that sales may drop when incentives expire. Cleveland indicates some car dealers regard inventories as excessive and may cut orders significantly. Atlanta reports increased attendance at District tourist attractions, except during the Labor Day weekend, disrupted by Hurricane Elena. Manufacturing Factory output, overall, has changed little in the past year, and is not likely to rise significantly in the months ahead. Imports continue to account for a large, and often growing, share of domestic consumption of steel, vehicles, machinery, wood products, furniture, textiles and apparel, and chemicals. Among the strongest manufacturing sectors are building materials and food processing. Motor vehicle production is holding at high levels, but is not expected to rise further. Producers of advanced electronics are in a severe slump after a rapid rise in 1983-84. Capital Expenditures Business capital spending prospects appear somewhat weaker, with cuts in plans in Philadelphia, Boston, and San Francisco. Chicago and Cleveland report reduced demand for heavy trucks and trailers. Machine tool orders are mainly for the auto industry and defense, with total backlogs far below the levels of the late 1970s. Inventories With some exceptions, business inventories are at acceptable levels, even low. Cleveland states that some manufacturers are cutting stocks, but Boston reports factory inventories to be "very lean". All items are readily available, and, with wholesale prices soft, there is no incentive to accumulate. Extractive Industries Declines in oil and gas drilling and synfuel facility construction are depressing activity in the Atlanta, Dallas, Minneapolis, and San Francisco districts. A further drop in world oil prices could hit these activities even harder. Mining of metal ores is very depressed. Richmond reports coal mining as "flat", but likely to improve because of low inventories. Housing Residential construction is generally strong, though Chicago reports activity far short of peaks in the late 1970s, and Minneapolis and San Francisco note that activity varies widely among areas. Respondents in Cleveland expect current strength, helped by state subsidized mortgage funds as well as lower mortgage rates, to wane. New York, however, reports that a high level of activity is expected through 1985, with shortages of skilled labor and certain materials. Home prices are generally rising in the New York District but co-op and condo prices have fallen. Atlanta and San Francisco note that the condo market is depressed in some areas. Dallas, in contrast, has seen a rise in multifamily permits, after earlier declines. Apartment building has been vigorous in the Chicago area, and has been boosted in Manhattan ahead of expiration of a local tax break. New York and Cleveland report minimal speculative building. Philadelphia and Cleveland say demand for mortgages is concentrated in fixed-rate loans. San Francisco reports strong demand to refinance fixed-rate mortgage loans at lower fixed rates. Nonresidential Construction Commercial construction is reported strong in several districts, but vacancy rates are rising. Boston and New York note use of concessions such as free rent. Bidding volume suggests continued strength in nonresidential building in Chicago into 1986. However, Dallas reports that plans are being deferred, suggesting a decline in contracts soon. Kansas City notes a shift from office building construction toward shopping centers. Construction of streets, highways, and water treatment plants is also strong, according to several reports. Agriculture All districts with extensive agriculture report excellent harvests, low farm prices, and depressed income. Farm sector problems in paying bills and servicing debt are growing. Strong statements on the "plight or the farmer" are made by Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Kansas City, Minneapolis, St. Louis, and San Francisco. Perhaps the greatest stress is in the corn and soybean areas. Farmers in the western plains have the additional problem of low yields caused by drought.