Economic conditions in the Southeast remain healthy on balance, and the outlook in several key sectors seems bright. Retail sales in August grew faster than nationally and compared to last year. The pace of residential building and sales or leasing in many regional markets continues to be brisk although multi-family and office construction are showing signs of excess supply. Bank lending, particularly to consumers, appears to have stabilized after decelerating appreciably earlier this year. Tourism business has been strong in most localities; however, Hurricane Elena drastically reduced tourist spending during the Labor Day weekend. The main areas of weakness are locally important industries, such as textiles, apparel, petrochemicals, and agriculture. The enervation of the region's manufacturing base is being felt in labor markets. Employment and Industry Labor markets continued to weaken in July. Primarily because labor force growth exceeded job gains, unemployment rates worsened in every District state. Total employment growth more than offset continuing job losses in the hard-hit apparel, textile, and petrochemical industries. Despite its problems, the textile industry's capital spending plans are up slightly from last year. Expenditures will be applied primarily to new equipment. As a result of reduced demand for phosphate fertilizer and low prices, Florida phosphate mine operators have recently furloughed workers and shortened the workweek. Imports of low-priced chemicals and reduced activity in the domestic metals industry are having an adverse effect on Louisiana's petrochemical industry. To meet current demand, producers are drawing down inventories rather than increasing production. More positively, the drop in natural gas prices is benefiting local producers of ammonia, for which natural gas is a feedstock. The outlook for the region's forest products industry has also improved. Contacts note that prices have stabilized and that inventories are not excessive at this time. Consumer Spending Retail sales in August were up from a year earlier as consumers responded favorably to heavy promotional efforts by retailers to move back-to-school items and remaining summer merchandise. Sales at regional department stores, especially those in Alabama, Florida, and Georgia, continue to advance at an above-national average pace. Merchants say that inventory levels are acceptable but they are closely monitoring their stocks. Although new orders are being planned cautiously, most retailers surveyed are optimistic that sales growth will be healthy over the remaining months of 1985 and generally expect year-over-year increases to be in the 3 to 10 percent range. After surging dramatically in late August, the region's car sales are widely expected to remain on the rise in the second half of 1985, either matching or slightly surpassing last year's performance. Construction Residential building shows mixed signs across the Southeast. Condominium markets generally are depressed as a result of excessive supply and low interest rates that enable first-time buyers to purchase the more popular single-family dwellings. Recent sluggishness in the Florida economy has adversely affected housing in the state, and inventories continue to accumulate in the New Orleans market. In contrast, cumulative residential permits in Atlanta through July were running about even with last year, well above the expectations of many industry analysts. The pace of sales and construction in Birmingham remains steady, and contacts express satisfaction with the inventory of single-family homes. Except in New Orleans, southeastern office markets continue to show strength. Atlanta, Miami, and Nashville are experiencing an improvement in leasing, although there are signs of overbuilding in Atlanta. Financial Services Regional bank loan growth stabilized somewhat during the summer after slowing substantially from January to May. This pattern is due primarily to a resurgence in consumer credit demand; real estate and especially business lending have continued to decelerate. However, the strength of business and real estate lending varies widely across the District. The market in Atlanta, for example, is healthy, whereas those in Miami and New Orleans are weak. Tourism Summer air travel was up, according to data from major regional airlines and many airports, and advance bookings for fall look strong. In contrast, auto travel, as measured by visitor center registration, fell in July. However, the latter might reflect the one-time effects of last year's World's Fair. Hotel occupancies and receipts in major cities continue to lag behind year-earlier levels because of recent expansions in supply. However, some Florida contacts report modest improvement in occupancy despite the surfeit of new rooms, and reservations for the remainder of this and next year portend improvement in Atlanta's large convention market. Most attractions polled have experienced increased attendance compared to last year, and the pace accelerated in August. However, Hurricane Elena had an adverse impact on Florida and Gulf Coast tourism during the important Labor Day weekend. Agriculture The hurricane and related weather which struck Mississippi apparently did little damage to crops in that state. Prospects for crops this growing season remain in favorable throughout the District as high yields appear likely. Nevertheless, much lower prices this year and less production of some crops may cause net farm income to fall from 1984. In addition, lower production and/or prices may result in a decline in gross income in the animal products industry. Financial distress also remains a concern. The Federal Land Bank of Jackson, Mississippi, which holds approximately $3 billion in real estate loans in Mississippi, Louisiana, and Alabama, may experience a year-end loss for the first time since the 1930s.