Overview What movement there has been in the District economy in recent weeks has been toward strength. But it is not yet clear that any broadbased improvement in activity is underway. Employment generally continues to show moderate growth, but with only spotty support from the manufacturing sector. Even that limited support represents improvement from earlier in the year. Early results suggest that August may have shown the first gain in manufacturing shipments since April, and that the slide in new orders may have been arrested. Retail activity also continues mixed, but upbeat reports are somewhat more common there as well. Commercial construction activity remains strong, although month-to-month gains are undoubtedly down somewhat. Residential construction and sales, on the other hand, are nearly uniformly strong, showing substantial month over month, and year over year gains in recent weeks, The agricultural economy in the District remains under stress, with preliminary estimates showing farm income below year ago levels, primarily as a result of weak commodity prices. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity is showing somewhat more life than in early summer. Overall, shipments apparently rose somewhat in the latest month, and the protracted slide in new orders seems to have ended, or at least paused. In addition, there have been some employment gains in the sector of late. Continued job losses in the textile and furniture groups have been more than offset by gains in such areas as building materials, machinery and equipment, electrical equipment, glass, and metals. Inventories generally remain above desired levels, having shown little change over the past several weeks. Manufacturers around the District are reportedly seeing almost nothing in the way of price changes, either for goods bought or sold. The situation is basically unchanged in the coal producing sector. Output continues to lag behind last year's level, and employment is down even more. Nonetheless, consumption, particularly in the utilities sector remains strong, and inventories are down. The outlook for production remains positive. Consumer Activity Retail sales activity is mixed according to latest reports, but even that assessment represents an improvement from early summer. In some areas and in some product lines, consumer activity apparently picked up quite sharply in August after several months of very weak activity. Most respondents find sales to have varied across product lines, however, and apparently, there Is some regional variation as well. In some areas sales remain below normal after adjustment for seasonal factors. Inventory levels are not widely thought to be a cause of concern. Housing and Construction Activity in commercial construction continues to be one of the bright spots in the District economy, although there appears to be a little room for further immediate expansion in this sector. Recent gains have been substantial in the residential construction sector, however, and sales of houses are such that there is little concern about bringing new units on line. Conditions in the housing sector generally are characterized as strong to "feverish." The Financial Sector Lending activity remains relatively strong, although there is little reported evidence of any excesses developing in any sectors. There are isolated reports of individual financial institutions ruining somewhat higher than desired loan-to-deposit ratios, but it is clearly not a generalized phenomenon. Residential mortgage markets, of course, are showing considerable activity. Agriculture Along with deteriorating prospects for farm income, weakness in farmland prices is becoming more severe. Agricultural bankers in the District reported a 17 percent decline in farmland prices over the last year. These conditions are reflected at District agricultural banks where loan repayment rates remain very sluggish and restructuring of agricultural debt is commonplace. In addition, bankers are pessimistic concerning the short term outlook, and expect additional financial problems this winter as farm bills come due and income levels remain weak.