Summary Recent reports on Seventh District economic activity suggest neither an overall pickup nor a pronounced weakening, except for the growing woes of cornbelt agriculture. Total employment in District states has been about flat since spring, and manufacturing has weakened since January. Mergers and "restructurings" of large enterprises have been accompanied by layoffs and close reins on new hires. Auto production, commercial and residential construction, and highway building arc strong compared to the levels of the early l980s. Many lines of capital goods important in the District remain weak. Steel production continues at depressed and unprofitable levels. However, the reported drop in steel imports in July raises hopes for higher output in the remainder of the year. General merchandise sales at major District retailers continue lackluster. Large prospective corn and soybean crops and weak export demand translate into downward price pressures and severe financial stress, particularly in Iowa and Illinois. Teachers' Strikes Tentative settlement was reached in a two-day strike by 28,000 teachers and about 12,000 other school employees in the huge Chicago district. Agreement to end the strike, the third in as many years, came after intervention by the governor of Illinois. The 2-year pact calls for a 6 percent first-year pay raise, with a further 3 percent pay increase in the second year contingent on additional state aid. Teachers also will get normal longevity increases. Teachers' strikes continue in some other public schools districts. Motor Vehicles Planned production of domestic cars and trucks remains vigorous through year-end. Cut-rate financing programs, along with improved availability following the carhauler's strike are stimulating strong sales gains. Inventory imbalances resulting from the strike are being eased quickly, though stocks of popular ear models, particularly imports, are tight. Many haulers have worked extended hours to clear bloated inventories of cars and trucks awaiting transport at plants, ports, and railheads. Auto output was not curtailed by the strike. Domestic auto makers have relied increasingly on railroads to haul vehicles in recent years. In 1984, 57 percent of domestic autos were moved from factories by rail, up from about 50 percent in 1979. In contrast, importers rely on trucks for transport of 90 percent of cars from ports of entry. Because stocks of popular imported models had been tighter than stocks of domestics, the carhaulers walkout had a greater impact on sales of imports. Sales of small trucks, many bought for consumer use, have been setting records. Demand for medium and heavy trucks has softened since early this year. The mix has been shifting from heavies toward mediums. Production of truck trailers has slumped sharply following the surge in demand last year which had reflected regulatory changes. Steel Demand for steel has been strong for construction and autos. Nonelectrical machinery, agriculture, and various other markets are weak. Steel shipments of domestic producers are expected to rise in the second half, seasonally adjusted, partly because of lower imports. The normal summer slowdown in steel production has been less pronounced than usual at major District centers. Sharply lower steel imports in July, to 22 percent of the U.S. market from 26 percent in the first half of the year, apparently reflect partial success for the Administration's import restraint program. However, import data arc erratic, and delays in reporting have lengthened in the past year. Court approval was finally given for demolition of over half of U.S. Steel's huge South Works in South Chicago where employment is down to around 900 from as many as 10,000. Capital Goods Demand for many types of capital goods produced in the Seventh District remains very weak. Included are equipment for heavy construction, mining, the oil and gas industries, public utilities, and railroads. Machine tool orders arc weak except from defense contractors and the auto industry. Sales of large farm tractors and combines are off sharply from already low levels. Major farm equipment plants are expected to be closed for extended periods this fall. Foreign competition continues intense in most capital goods lines. Construction Building activity in the District continues well above recession levels, but generally far short of peaks reached in the late 1970's. Office, retail, and apartment construction are vigorous in downtown Chicago and certain suburban areas. Some new building and renovation work apparently is being pushed in anticipation of possible unfavorable changes in tax laws. However, bidding volume suggests that strength will carry into 1986. Residential and nonresidential building is up strongly in southern Michigan, helped by the resurgence in the auto industry in the past three years. Highway construction is also strong in the District. Consumer Spending General merchandise sales of major District retailers on a "same store" basis, have been disappointing for several months. Following last year's inventory buildup, buying has been closely restricted, and stocks are under better control. Sales of durables are expected to strengthen in the second half because of the high level of residential sales. A large retailer headquartered in the Seventh District is eliminating its century-old catalog business, which employs 5,000. Agriculture Estimates of the fall harvest, likely to be revised upward, point to an 8 percent increase in the District's corn crop, and 11 percent increase for soybeans. Nationwide, the increase currently are forecast at 8 percent for corn and 5 percent for soybeans. Large prospective harvests and slumping exports have sharply depressed crop prices. In August, corn and soybean prices were down 10 percent from May, about 25 percent below last year, and the lowest since 1982. Livestock prices also are very depressed, with overall meat animal prices down 11 percent from a year ago and, except for a two- month period in 1983, the lowest since 1978. Low commodity prices and continuing declines in farm real estate values are further eroding precarious financial positions of many farmers and putting pressure on their lenders. Conditions are not expected to improve for a long time to come.