Overview District economic activity grew moderately in September and early October. Areas experiencing growth included the service-producing sector, commercial real estate, ports, state revenues, and tourism. Manufacturing growth slackened, however, and housing activity declined. Consumer spending was unchanged, while conditions were mixed in finance and in agriculture. Consumer Spending Respondents to a mail survey and other contacts indicated that District retail activity was flat in September. Overall sales and auto sales were unchanged from August, and employment and wages changed little. Inventories increased, but shopper traffic and big- ticket sales declined. Survey respondents indicated that retail prices increased 0.5 percent in September. They foresaw increased demand for their products and an increase of 1.6 percent in their prices during the next six months. Service-Producing Firms Respondents to a mail survey and other contacts indicated that activity in the service-producing sector increased in September. Revenues and wages rose, but employment changed little. Revenues decreased, however, in real estate and health services. Service producers indicated that prices rose 0.6 percent in September. They expected increased demand for their services and an increase of 1.1 percent in their prices during the next six months. Manufacturing Indicators of factory activity growth declined in September from their August levels, according to a mail survey of District manufacturers. Finished goods inventories were down compared to six months ago, and respondents expected a further decline during the next six months. Manufacturers expected shipments and employment to increase during the next six months, but they anticipated little change in the workweek. Finished goods prices increased faster in September than in August, while raw materials prices rose more slowly; both increases were below the general inflation rate. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity in the first half of October was above that of September and a year ago, especially in mountain areas where fall foliage was near its peak. Fall bookings were up compared to a year ago, and contacts expected better-than- normal business over the next six months. Ports Representatives at the District ports of Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk) indicated that export levels in September were higher than those of August and a year ago. Imports increased in Baltimore and Charleston but decreased in Hampton Roads. During the next six months, port representatives expected both exports and imports to increase. Finance District financial institutions reported that loan demand was mixed during September and early October. Demand for commercial loans increased, but consumer loan demand declined moderately. Mortgage lending activity continued to decline. Interest rates were higher on commercial, consumer, and mortgage loans. Residential Real Estate According to District realtors and builders, residential real estate activity declined during September and early October. Building permits, home sales, and buyer traffic all decreased. Homebuilders indicated that they started fewer houses following the recent rise in mortgage rates. Home prices remained stable, although prices of nonlumber building materials rose slightly. Commercial Real Estate Real estate contacts reported that commercial real estate activity grew in October. Commercial vacancy rates declined throughout the District. Commercial rents were steady, but contacts anticipated slight increases in the near future. Leasing agents reported that the availability of large blocks of office space continued to tighten, particularly around Washington, D.C. Contacts reported little change in new construction, except in North Carolina, where new build-to-suit. construction increased. State Revenues State government forecasters said September tax collections grew moderately. Real revenue growth remained slow in South Carolina, flat to negative in the District of Columbia, and moderate to healthy elsewhere. Agriculture Conditions in agriculture were mixed in early October, according to District farm analysts. Crop harvesting was progressing at a normal pace. Near-record crop yields were expected to lead to large production levels. Analysts, however, expected weaker crop prices to dampen increases in crop cash receipts. The planting of winter small grains was underway, and farm analysts believed that dry conditions may have slightly damaged the crop in some areas of Virginia and Maryland. In the livestock sector, hog production was steady in all District states, except in North Carolina, which experienced a dramatic increase; hog prices were sharply lower. Poultry production increased in Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina, and prices were steady.