General Business Conditions The Fourth District economy continues to perform at a relatively high level, particularly in the industrial sector, where capacity constraints are becoming increasingly evident. Substantial price increases are noted along a broad range of industrial goods, and there is a general presumption that these cost pressures will soon be felt in finished goods prices. However, significant price increases have yet to be realized at the retail level. Construction is spotty by region, although steel producers note an improvement in structural steel orders. Agricultural conditions are favorable, with record harvests seen in many regions. High crop yields have exerted some downward pressure on prices, but farm revenues are expected to be good. Manufacturing Industrial activity in the District remains brisk. Auto-related industries are operating at a high level, bolstering steel production. District steel producers also note an improvement in orders coming from the capital goods industry. Recovery in Europe is strengthening foreign demand for U S. products. Rising foreign steel prices and lengthening backlogs from foreign steel producers appear to be further boosting domestic demand for steel. A continued acceleration in industrial commodities prices, including steel, resin, a variety of paper products, and chemicals, is being noted, along with increasingly frequent reports of capacity strains and labor shortages in the industrial sector. Although a few firms are hesitating to add permanent staff or capacity, that reluctance appears to have diminished in the past few months No respondents are citing substantial wage pressures, however, and there is little indication that the cost pressures from industrial materials are spilling into finished goods or retail prices. Consumers District retailers report some slackening in activity in early October, although one major discounter said that sales have quickened since then. The back-to-school sales period (mid-August through September) was described as good overall, with mid-single- digit improvements from last year. Durable goods continue to sell well, especially furniture, appliances, and electronics. Some of the strength in this area is thought to be a lagged response to the strong housing starts earlier in the year that have recently been completed. Slower growth in housing demand and increased reluctance of consumers to take on new debt suggest some softening in this area through the end of the year. Sales of soft goods have lagged, but are generally expected to strengthen. Sales of apparel, and particularly women's apparel, have been disappointing for District retailers. Although part of the weakness is characterized as cyclical, unseasonably warm weather over much of the Midwest has also temporarily reduced clothing demand. Early indications suggest that the 1994 holiday sales period will be reasonably strong, retailers expect gains of 5 percent or so for the season compared with 1993. Seasonal hiring is expected to be on par with last year. Although one large discounter reports labor shortages in some locations, District retailers indicate they have not had much difficulty finding part-time employees. Suppliers have been increasingly pressing for price increases, but with little apparent success. The major retailers we contacted indicated little room for price increases, stating that a "brutally" competitive retail environment has kept profit margins razor-thin. Autos Sales by Fourth District auto dealers vary from "very good" to "best ever." Although sales rates have probably eased in October after a robust September, they continue to improve on a year-over-year basis. Dealers are once again reporting that shortages of many popular models have damped sales, but confidence for the 1995 model year is still quite high. Price increases on the 1995 models are similar to last year, in the 2 to 5 percent range, although incentives and other price discounting are reduced. Dealers also report only modest gains in parts prices and service charges. Dealers are increasingly concerned that market interest rates will begin rising again, most immediately because of the impact on their floor-plan costs, and only secondarily because of their effect on consumer loan rates. Consumer finance rates have been stable recently in most markets. Banking and Credit District loan demand remains solid, especially for consumers. Real estate lending has moderated a bit, but is still characterized as reasonably strong. The most prominent change in the past few months has been a strengthening in commercial credit demands, particularly for small and medium-sized businesses. This may reflect rapidly rising floor-plan financing by auto dealers, although a more general business expansion is noted. No slippage in loan quality has been reported. Competition for deposits has intensified, although several large District banks note a continued run-off of certificates of deposit. Deposit rates have apparently become increasingly competitive with nonbank deposit sources.