Overview The southeast's economic expansion held steady in early fall, according to business contacts. Retailers reported mixed results, but with strength in men's and women's apparel. Holiday sales are generally expected to be strong, although merchants generally expect pressures to grow on prices. Business travel and tourism remain robust in most of the region, and positive reports of advance winter bookings in south Florida may signal improvement there. While factory activity may have slowed a little since the previous report, contacts have become more optimistic about the near-term outlook. Home sales and building have slowed somewhat in most of be region, while rising rental rates and occupancies have boosted the multifamily market, and commercial real estate markets are reported to be tightening somewhat. Overall loan demand is said to be increasing modestly. Contacts report labor market tightness in a few parts of the region, and wages generally remain stable. Reports of pressures on prices of inputs continue to mount. Consumer Spending Reports from retailers were mixed, with some contacts noting double- digit growth and others saying that unseasonably warm weather slowed sales in the last half of September. Back-to-school sales were characterized as fair, with denim items continuing to be strong sellers. Generally, women's apparel sales are said to be improving while those for men's wear maintain a strong pace. Retailers note that traditional apparel lines are selling better than faddish ones. Merchants generally anticipate a strong holiday selling season. Currently, prices are remaining stable, but pressures are reported to be growing, and many retailers expect vendors to raise prices in the near future. Auto dealers report that sales are brisk, although many dealers continue to complain about inventory shortages of popular models. Manufacturing The District's manufacturing sector continued to expand, although most contacts said the pace of activity had slowed a bit from a month before. Although several reported higher inventories of finished goods, most factory contacts were more optimistic about future prospects than before. Firms producing paper, pulp, chemicals, forest products, textiles, and aluminum products are currently increasing production at their plants. Shipbuilding and repair facilities report strengthening activity. Producers of heavy- duty trucks are running at capacity levels. Other sectors, however, are not so vibrant. The region's important apparel manufacturing sector continues to shrink with new layoff announcements, which producers attribute to foreign competition, corporate efficiency measures, and soft demand for certain products. Uncertainties surrounding the ongoing downsizing of defense manufacturers and cutbacks in the space industry are continuing to adversely affect central Florida. Tourism and Business Travel There are reports of signs of a turnaround along Florida's southeast coast. Advance winter bookings at major resorts are said to be up, and interest from Canadian and Latin American tourists has been increasing. Tourist, convention, and business travel is well above 1993 levels, according to reports from the rest of the region, and is providing an especially strong boost to the economies of New Orleans and Atlanta. Construction September home sales have moved below last year's strong level, according to District realtors. The fall-off in sales is attributed to rising mortgage rates which have squeezed some buyers out of the market and prompted others to wait and see. Even though home prices appear to have stabilized in most areas of the District, most realtors report that the market continues to be tight. Residential construction has slowed in much of the District with the exception of flood damaged areas that are experiencing a surge in construction. Commercial and multifamily real estate contacts continue to report improving market conditions. Both occupancy and rental rates continue to rise within the multifamily market. New apartment developments are currently under construction in several cities whose markets are said to be tight enough to easily absorb the new space. Commercial realtors continue to report falling vacancy rates and rising rental rates. Increasing demand for space in some areas is said to be bringing about some speculative building. Financial Services Banks noted flattening commercial loan demand, especially from larger companies, but healthy demand from small and medium-size companies. Commercial real estate lending was also strong and some felt there was too much money chasing deals in that area. Consumer loan demand was described as either flat or up modestly by most contacts. Auto lending is mixed, with some banks reporting demand as flat, and others noting a modest uptick. Home mortgage lending continues to slow in most areas of the District. Wages and Prices Contacts in some local area labor markets say that they are tightening, making it difficult for firms in the retail, service, and light industrial sectors to attract and retain employees. Reports of rising wages are becoming more numerous but are still limited to only a few parts of the region. The number of reports of price pressures continues to mount. A growing number of factory contacts expect finished goods prices to increase in the coming months. Price increases for lumber, paper, and other raw materials were reported.