Overview The Tenth District economy continues to grow at a healthy pace. Retail sales increased over the past month and manufacturers continue to operate at high levels of capacity. District energy activity is improving somewhat. In the farm sector, conditions are generally good for crop producers but somewhat less favorable for cattle producers. Meanwhile, residential construction and sales of new homes continue to slow. Retail prices remain stable, while the prices of manufacturers' inputs are up from a year ago. Retail Sales Retailers report sales increases over both the past year and the past month. Sales remain strongest in apparel and home furnishings. Prices have been stable since last year and are expected to remain steady for the rest of this year. Most respondents expect sales to continue to rise over the next few months. While most retailers are satisfied with current inventory levels or are expanding inventories for the holiday season, a few are trimming inventories. Auto dealers report that sales have generally been stable over the past month but are concerned about a lack of supply. Most dealers are optimistic that sales will increase in the near future as new models become more widely available. Financing is generally available for both dealers and consumers. Manufacturing Purchasing agents report input prices are higher than a year ago, and some expect input prices to increase further in the next few months. Several agents report longer lead times in obtaining materials but do not expect major bottlenecks during the next few months. Firms are generally satisfied with current inventory levels, but a few plan to reduce inventories in the months ahead. Most firms are operating at high levels of capacity, and a few report shortages of skilled labor. Exporting firms report a slight increase in sales and expect sales to grow through the rest of the year. Energy Energy activity in the district has begun its usual fourth quarter surge despite soft crude oil and natural gas prices. In September, the average number of drilling rigs in the district surged, while crude oil prices fell for the second straight month and natural gas prices hit a two-year low. In the first two weeks of October, the district rig count continued to climb but remained below its year- ago level. Housing Housing starts and sales of new homes are generally down over the last month. Most respondents expect starts and sales of new homes to remain stable in the near future. Prices of new homes are stable to slightly lower than last month. Delivery times and prices of materials are mostly unchanged, although some builders report problems obtaining concrete. Mortgage demand continues to decline with higher interest rates. Lenders expect demand to remain sluggish in the months ahead. Agriculture The district's corn and soybean harvest is ahead of schedule. Agricultural bankers report above-average yields with some record yields reported in Nebraska. Winter wheat planing is nearly complete. Although dry conditions forced farmers to cut back planted acreage in Oklahoma and Colorado, recent rains have substantially improved the prospects for the district's wheat crop. The earlier dry spell hurt pasture conditions in the district, causing many cow/calf operators to sell calves earlier than normal. The large number of cattle entering feedlots this fall suggests cattle pi ices may not strengthen in the near future. Banking Loan demand at most reporting banks rose last month, due to rising demand for commercial and industrial loans, consumer loans, and commercial real estate loans. Demand for home equity loans and construction loans was flat to up. Changes in demand for home mortgages and agricultural loans were mixed. Loan-deposit ratios were up at most banks over the last month, while security investments were flat to down. Only one of the responding banks raised its prime rate last month, but about half of the banks expect to raise it in the near term. Most banks increased consumer lending rates last month and expect to raise them slightly in the near term. None of the respondents changed its lending standards over the past month. About half of the banks reported no change in deposits last month, while the other half were divided between increases and decreases. Large CDs, IRAs, and Keogh Accounts were flat to up, while NOW accounts and MMDAs were flat to down. Changes in demand deposits and small time and savings deposits were mixed.