Summary District firms continue to report expansions and new hirings. At the same time, plant closures and layoffs have dulled the momentum witnessed earlier this year. Residential construction activity is mixed, but new and existing home sales are still strong in most areas of the District. Business, real estate and consumer loans outstanding at large District banks have increased moderately in recent months. Record crops in many areas have buoyed District farmers after last year's poor harvest. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity District firms continue to report modest growth, although some firms are laying off workers and shutting down plants. Sales, for the most part, continue strong in many industries. Many contacts, particularly in the Memphis, northern Mississippi and eastern Arkansas areas, are reporting a shortage of qualified workers for both permanent and seasonal work. One contact in the paper industry reports that the third quarter was the best since 1989, with capacity at about 96 percent. A contact in the heating and cooling industry reports a record year, with sales greatly surpassing last year's levels. This contact also noted that a slowdown in orders for the fourth quarter was larger than the normal seasonal decline. A farm equipment dealer states that new equipment sales have picked up very well over the past two months, while used equipment sales have dropped off somewhat. The poultry processing industry is entering Kentucky en masse; another firm announced plans to open a new plant, bringing the total to four within the past year. Makers of wood furniture in northeast Mississippi report that plants are operating at or above capacity, overtime is the norm, and plans for expansion are commonplace. An apparel manufacturer reports optimism about sales for the rest of the year given the current level of orders. Some manufacturing firms in the southern part of the District report year-to-date sales increases of between 5 percent and 26 percent over last year. Firms throughout the District also report increases in employment levels. For example, a dry cleaning company will bring 300 new jobs into southern Indiana when it moves into refurbished Army facilities. An engine manufacturer will bring 600 jobs to central Missouri when its new plant opens next year. A maker of plumbing fixtures is building a new plant in western Tennessee and will hire at least 200 workers initially. Because of a new contract with a fast food chain, a poultry processor is adding 200 employees at its Missouri plant and will hire almost 500 in Kentucky. A maker of mobile homes that closed a plant in 1991 has reopened it because of high demand; the company has a 600- to 700-home backlog. All the news is not positive, however, as layoffs and plant closings have also occurred. For example, a maker of tissues and other paper products closed its Memphis plant, eliminating 640 jobs. A maker of plastic products closed its Missouri plant, eliminating 200 positions. An Arkansas shoe company has placed all production employees on a four-day workweek in an attempt to avoid layoffs. A hydraulic pump manufacturer will lay off 175 workers when at closes early next year because of excess capacity. Construction and Real Estate Some softening of single-family residential construction, largely attributed to rising interest rates, is being reported in several areas of the District. Although single-family building permits are still up on a year-to-date basis, they were at or below their year- ago levels in July and August in both Louisville and Memphis. In St. Louis, permits were still above their year-ago levels in August and September, but the pace of activity is markedly slower than it was earlier in the year. Some pockets of strength still exist, however, as residential construction in northeast Mississippi, and in central and northwestern Arkansas continues at a strong pace. Even in areas of slowing construction, however, realtors still report fairly brisk sales of existing homes. Banking and Finance Total loans and leases at 11 large District banks rose 1.7 percent during the past two months, after declining 1.9 percent in the prior two months. Each category of loans showed growth during this most recent two-month period: Commercial and industrial (C&I) loans rose 1.7 percent, real estate loans were up 1.1 percent and consumer loans increased 3.2 percent. In the prior two-month period, C&I loans were down 0.9 percent, real estate loans had declined 3.6 percent and consumer loans were up a modest 1.3 percent. Agriculture and Natural Resources The fall harvest is reported as better-than-expected in many areas. Arkansas farmers, for example, expect to harvest a record rice crop, with milling quality generally reported as good to excellent. Similarly, Delta cotton farmers report that warm, dry weather in September has produced good yields, although recent rains may have diminished the quality of the crop somewhat. Corn and soybean yields are reported as above average in most areas, with some farmers reporting record yields. Even some fields in Missouri that were damaged in last year's floods have reportedly yielded unexpectedly good crops. Bumper crop prospects, however, have caused most grain prices to fall well below last year's levels. Despite low river levels in the southern parts of the District, primarily on the Mississippi, barge traffic has not been impaired. In fact, barge operators are expecting business to pick up because of the record fall harvests and the prospects of increased grain exports.