Auto dealers in upstate New York report positive results. Sales of new vehicles were up noticeably from a year ago in May and are projected to be up modestly in June. Leasing activity and business at dealers' service departments have been robust since the last report. Dealers also report strong sales and elevated prices for used vehicles. Wholesale and retail credit conditions remain favorable, though one contact reports that banks have reined in lending for used vehicles.
Tourism activity has remained robust since the last report. New York City hotels indicate that revenues per room were up 6-7 percent from a year ago in May and that very preliminary figures for June suggest similar gains. This gain reflects increased occupancy rates, which have been running above 90 percent, as well as 3-4 percent increases in average room rates. Attendance at Broadway theatres was generally steady in May and June and up slightly from a year earlier, while revenue was up more than 10 percent, due to rising ticket prices.
Commercial real estate markets in and around New York City have shown some signs of softening since the last report. Office vacancy rates in Manhattan, though steady for the second quarter overall, rose in June; new leasing activity slowed, as renewals have accounted for a growing share of leases. A major brokerage firm notes strong demand from tech firms--largely in Manhattan's Midtown South district--but sluggish demand from the financial sector. Office vacancy rates in the areas around Manhattan--Long Island, Westchester, and northern New Jersey--edged up in the 2nd quarter. Retail vacancy rates in New York City and northern New Jersey rose slightly in the second quarter. Industrial vacancy rates also edged up in most markets.
Still, labor market conditions across the District have been steady to slightly improved since the last report. Both manufacturers and business contacts in other sectors say that they are adding workers, on net. A major New York City employment agency specializing in office jobs reports that hiring activity remains fairly subdued and is little changed from the spring; however, this contact also notes that the pool of qualified workers is limited and appears to be dwindling gradually. Similarly, a trucking industry contact notes that firms are having a difficult time finding qualified drivers.
