The Tenth District economy expanded moderately in late October and early November. Most retailers posted additional sales gains, factory activity increased further, and labor markets showed continued improvement. Housing activity remained solid, and the energy and agriculture sectors were still strong. On the negative side, commercial real estate markets generally remained weak. Wage pressures were still modest, but some price pressures persisted for manufacturers and builders. Consumer Spending Consumer spending in the district increased further in late October and early November. Most store and mall managers reported solid year-over-year sales gains, and almost no stores reported declines compared with last year. Sales of luxury items, such as jewelry and designer clothing, were reported as especially strong at several stores. Almost all managers were optimistic about holiday sales. Most managers were expanding inventories at least as much as a year ago, and those that were not generally attributed their leaner inventories to their improved ability to adjust stock levels quickly. Motor vehicle sales in the district were flat for the second survey in a row and still slightly lower than a year ago in most areas. Most auto dealers contacted were satisfied with inventory levels. However, a number of dealerships still had excess vehicles, especially in Denver and Kansas City. Most dealers anticipate a pickup in sales in coming months, due to reduced consumer uncertainty following the election and quality improvements in new model year vehicles. Travel and tourism activity in the district was solid in late October and early November, as airport traffic and hotel occupancy rates remained above year-ago levels in most cities. Looking ahead, Rocky Mountain resorts reported solid increases in advance hotel bookings and ski pass sales from a year ago. They also expect an increase in international visitors this winter due to recent declines in the value of the dollar. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity expanded moderately in late October and early November. Manufacturers reported increased production and orders, though the increase in orders was not as strong as in past surveys. Firms continued to add employees at a rate similar to the previous survey. About half of plant managers reported some difficulties obtaining materials, especially petroleum-based materials, and they generally expect these problems to persist. Factories remained quite optimistic about future production, and many firms plan to continue to increase employment and capital spending at a moderate rate in coming months. Real Estate and Construction Housing activity remained solid in late October and early November, while commercial real estate activity was still weak. Overall, single-family housing starts in the district were flat compared with recent months, although starts were still high by historical standards. Construction was characterized as stronger for lower-priced homes than for higher-priced homes in most areas. Most builders expect solid levels of construction to continue in the months ahead and generally expect few materials availability problems. According to realtors, home sales in most parts of the district continued to ease slightly from the high levels reached earlier in the year, and virtually all realtors noted at least some excess inventory of homes. Sales were reported as weakest for higher-priced homes. Most realtors expect home sales to remain solid in the months ahead. Home prices in most cities were reported to be up slightly from the previous survey and are expected to post continued modest increases heading forward. Mortgage lenders reported flat mortgage demand over the past month, with slightly stronger demand for refinancings than for home-purchase loans. Heading forward, lenders generally expect refinancings to slow somewhat but home-purchase loans to pick up slightly. Commercial real estate activity in the district was still weak but generally stable. Absorption rates were reported to be up modestly in some cities. However, because the supply of new space also increased somewhat, vacancy rates were largely unchanged. As in the previous survey, about half of the commercial realtors contacted expect some improvement in vacancy rates over the next six months. Banking Bankers report that both loans and deposits held steady since the last survey, leaving loan-deposit ratios unchanged. Demand rose for commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans but fell for consumer loans and home equity loans. Demand for home mortgage loans was unchanged. On the deposit side, all major types of accounts were flat. Almost all respondent banks raised their prime lending rates and consumer lending rates since the last survey. Lending standards were unchanged. Energy District energy activity remained very strong in late October and early November but eased slightly from the previous survey. The count of active oil and gas drilling rigs in the region edged down to mid-summer levels but was still well above year-ago levels. About half of contacts continue to report constraints on drilling due to labor and equipment shortages. Absent these constraints, which are expected to persist for at least another six months, contacts believe drilling could increase by 10 to 20 percent. Agriculture Agricultural conditions in the district were strong in late October and early November. The harvest of spring-planted crops was nearly complete, and producers reported above-average quality and yields, especially for corn and soybeans. Winter wheat planting was also completed, and conditions were favorable heading into the dormancy period. In the livestock market, the price of feeder cattle moved down slightly since the last survey, but ranchers were still reluctant to expand herds. Agricultural bankers generally expect farm income to reach a new record in 2004. Labor Markets, Wages, and Prices Wage pressures remained modest despite further firming in labor markets, but price pressures persisted for manufacturers and builders. Labor markets showed further steady improvement, as layoff announcements continued to decline and hiring announcements remained solid. Hiring of temporary workers was reported as stronger in some areas but little changed from recent months in other areas. A number of firms continued to have difficulty finding qualified workers, especially in the energy sector and for some skilled factory and repair positions. However, wage pressures were still generally modest outside of the energy sector. Most retailers reported flat selling prices compared with previous surveys, though some sellers of furniture, flooring, appliances, and hardware continued to report modest price increases. Retailers and mall managers generally expect holiday price promotions to be similar to previous years. Virtually all builders continued to report higher prices for a broad range of materials, including lumber, drywall, cement, and steel products. However, they generally expect these prices to level off in the near future. A large number of manufacturers also continued to report higher materials costs, and many of these firms reported increases in output prices as well. Most plant managers expect input price pressures to persist in the months ahead, though some anticipate a pause in the rise in steel prices. As for output prices, several firms previously unable to raise their prices believe they will soon be able to do so.