The Ninth District experienced broad-based growth from October through mid-November. Signs of growth were noted in most areas: consumer spending, manufacturing, construction, energy, mining and agriculture. Tourism was about even with a year ago. Labor markets tightened and wage increases were modest. Price increases appeared in a number of sectors including manufacturing, construction and energy. Consumer Spending and Tourism Overall consumer spending increased from a year ago. A major Minneapolis-based retailer reported same-store sales up 6 percent in October compared with a year ago, while a Minnesota-based women's apparel chain reported October same-store sales up 7 percent compared with last year. A mall manager in Montana reported sales up about 3 percent compared with a year ago; foot traffic picked up in the first half of November. A Minneapolis area mall manager expects a 4 percent to 5 percent increase in holiday sales compared with last year. A South Dakota bank director said most businesses are optimistic for holiday sales. An auto dealer in Minnesota reported that October was generally slow for traffic and sales compared with a year ago; November started a little stronger. Autumn tourism activity was about even with a year ago. The number of visitors at tourism destinations in the Black Hills of South Dakota during September and October was down slightly compared with a year ago; however, revenue was up slightly. Fall outdoor activities were strong in northwestern Wisconsin, although retail sales slowed somewhat, according to a chamber of commerce representative. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity increased. Based on preliminary results from the Minneapolis Fed's annual business poll (November), respondents from the manufacturing sector expect strong growth in company sales, employment and investment in 2005. In addition, an October survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) indicated strong manufacturing activity in the Dakotas and Minnesota. A cabinet producer in Minnesota plans to add a warehouse and a finishing facility. In South Dakota, a snowplow maker expanded production. A large North Dakota bakery plans to add $2 million in processing equipment. In northwestern Wisconsin, a food processor is planning to add a production facility. Construction and Real Estate Signs of growth were noted in commercial construction and real estate. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, a large commercial real estate firm recently reported increased absorption and decreased vacancy rates for office space. The medical office market is heating up. The industrial real estate market continues to improve throughout the district. Construction began on a $42 million beef processing plant in South Dakota. Contracts awarded for large construction projects in Minnesota and the Dakotas increased 17 percent for the three-month period ended in September compared with a year ago. Residential markets continued at a strong pace. A mortgage broker in Fargo-Moorhead reported she expects another record year. Despite some small corrections in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, longer market times, higher inventory and fewer closings, sales continue at a strong pace. A Minnesota bank director noted residential construction was strong, with a mixed outlook. However, realtors in the Duluth-Superior area noted movements toward a buyer's market. Energy and Mining Activity in the energy sectors remained strong, and mining activity increased. Mid-November district oil production increased from early October. A Montana gas exploration and pipeline company is having trouble finding qualified workers, and another gas exploration company plans to increase the number of wells drilled. Iron ore mines continued to produce at capacity. In addition, capital expansion is under way. In Montana, a bank director noted that mining companies are investing in capital equipment and are becoming more aggressive in production and expansion. Agriculture Agriculture activity increased. "Steadily going up," wrote a Montana lender responding to the Minneapolis Fed's third quarter (October) agricultural credit conditions survey. Lenders expected that overall agricultural income would rise in the fourth quarter. The U.S. Department of Agriculture increased estimates of the already high forecast for the corn harvest, and the soybean harvest is expected to be above last year's levels. The Montana winter wheat crop has emerged at a slightly faster pace than the five-year average. Meanwhile, the USDA forecasts slight decreases in prices for corn and soybeans and a slight increase in wheat prices. Employment, Wages and Prices Labor market conditions showed some signs of tightening since the last report. A major Minnesota-based airline may recall as many as 400 pilots next year due to attrition and modest growth. A North Dakota window plant recently announced the addition of 40 new jobs. Retail hiring is generally expected to be above year-ago levels at district retail stores. Montana and South Dakota business contacts mentioned some difficulty in finding qualified workers, especially skilled workers and in hiring for night and weekend shifts. Just over 44 percent of preliminary respondents to the Minneapolis Fed's business poll expect to increase employment at their companies; 49 percent expect to keep staffing levels the same. A year ago the poll responses were 33 percent and 52 percent, respectively. In contrast, a Minnesota-based company that makes recordable tape, CD and DVD products plans to cut 250 jobs companywide, with many of the layoffs taking place at its headquarters. The closing of a Minnesota call center, due to company consolidation, will affect 70 jobs. Increases in wages and salaries were modest. Bank directors in Montana mentioned moderate increases in wages and salaries in several parts of the state. Wage and salary growth in 2005 is expected to be subdued; 78 percent of respondents to the Minneapolis Fed's business poll expect wage increases to range from 2 percent to 3 percent. Price increases appeared in several sectors, including manufacturing, construction and energy. Preliminary results of the Minneapolis Fed's business poll indicate some higher expectations for prices, as 48 percent of respondents expect to increase prices for their products in 2005, up from 31 percent in last year's poll. Several construction and manufacturing materials prices increased, such as aluminum, concrete, copper, diesel fuel and steel products. Softwood prices decreased since the last report, but were still about 15 percent higher than a year ago. Pork prices were up about 15 percent from last year.