Overview There appears to be a lull in economic activity in the Tenth District at this time. But retailers, including automobile dealers, are mildly optimistic about sales for the rest of 1984. Inventories are viewed as generally satisfactory by retailers and manufacturers. Few price increases are expected for the rest of the year at either the retail or the producer level. Housing starts and sales continue above year-ago rates, while demand for mortgage funds is weak. Most responding banks report no change in total loan demand, and some growth in total deposits. Agricultural bankers expect unsatisfactory progress in debt servicing by many farmers in 1985. Retail Trade Although most retailers report year-to-date sales have improved over year-ago levels, results have been mixed in the past three months. Stores with declines in sales in the past three months note some recovery more recently. Clothing has been selling particularly well. Inventory levels are slightly higher than some retailers desire, but this comes at a time when retailers are trying to position inventories for the holiday season. Retailers are mildly optimistic about sales through the remainder of the year with "better than last year" the predominantly expressed sentiment about this year's Christmas sales. Prices have remained flat in recent months, and no significant increases are expected for the remainder of the year. Automobile Sales Automobile dealers report sales are slightly ahead of year-ago levels. Credit market conditions remain satisfactory, and financing is available both for floor planning and new car sales. A number of dealers describe inventories as tight, and the mix of inventories is unsatisfactory with some of the 1985 models in short supply. Despite this, dealers remain optimistic about sales for the remainder of the 1984 and early 1985. Purchase Agents Respondents report input price increases ranging from 2 to 7 percent over the past year. Most have experienced smaller increases over the recent three months, and few expect price hikes during the remainder of 1984. Except for some difficulties with undependable suppliers, most agents have had no problem getting deliveries and expect none for the remainder of the year. Most respondents describe inventory levels as satisfactory while they continue to look for ways to trim further during the remainder of 1984. Housing Activity and Finance The majority of homebuilders report that housing starts are still running ahead of last year. Most report substantial improvement in multi-family starts, but only moderate increase in single-family starts. Sales of new hones are at or above last year's rate. Prices for new hones have remained constant or risen only slightly, and inventories are generally low. Prices for building materials have remained stable or risen slightly. No availability problems were reported, nor are any expected. Demand for mortgage funds at savings and loan associations is weak, especially for residential mortgages. Mortgage commitments are thus being made at a slow pace. Mortgage rates are expected to fall slightly, but no significant improvement in mortgage demand is anticipated before early next year. Savings inflows are reported to be somewhat higher than last year, with some further improvement expected. Banking A majority of respondents at Tenth District banks report no change in total loan demand during the last month. However, a sizable minority indicate that loan demand was somewhat higher. The situation is similar for commercial and industrial loans, and for commercial real estate lending. Some respondents express continuing concern about loan quality in industries such as energy and agriculture. Most banks report an increase in consumer loans, but lending for residential real estate is unchanged. A majority of respondents experienced growth in total deposits. Demand deposits and conventional NOW accounts showed little change, but most banks registered increases in Super-NOW accounts and MMDA's. Large certificates of deposit, passbook savings accounts, and small time deposits were generally unchanged. Agriculture Banks in the Tenth District report a slight decline in interest rates on operating loans for farmers, with current rates ranging from 13.5 to 14.5 percent. The largest decrease was in New Mexico, and some bankers in Missouri and Nebraska expect interest rates to move lower yet. Despite slightly lower interest rates, paydowns on operating loans at agricultural banks have been much slower than expected throughout the Tenth District, with the exception of Colorado. Agricultural bankers now expect many farmers to make unsatisfactory progress in servicing their debts in 1985. Land prices continue to decline, but very little land is currently changing hands. Corn yields are reported above average, except in Missouri where yields are sharply lower than normal due to a summer drought. Soybean yields are generally reported below average. Extensive total and partial liquidations of cow-calf herds by major ranch operators are reported in Nebraska, Oklahoma, and Colorado. Stocker cattle operators are reflecting guarded optimism about 1985 price prospects, however.