Strengths continue to outweigh weaknesses in the southeastern economy. With the exception of certain import-sensitive industries, the manufacturing sector continue to expand, and optimism remains strong. Retailers expect healthy holiday sale without excessive pressures on profits. The large volume of commercial construction is helping to offset the slower pace of residential building, and contacts believe that underlying conditions portend a revival in housing next year. Bank loan demand remains on the upswing, and thrift mortgage commitments are above the seasonal norm. Business and convention travel is sustaining growth in lodgings and air transportation, although vacation travel has slowed somewhat. The agriculture sector, particularly cotton and soybean growers, also experienced some late-season setbacks as the result of heavy rainfall and flooding. Employment and Industry Unemployment rates changed marginally in September. However, more recent labor market data for three of the six District states suggest that the region's overall rate rose slightly in October. Industrial activity also is mixed. Fewer housing starts and rising Imports of Canadian lumber are swelling forest product supplies and depressing prices. One-third of the lumber now sold in Alabama reportedly is Canadian. Clothing and textile producers continue to face stiff foreign competition that has resulted in layoffs and plant closings. Although previously idled workers in Louisiana's petrochemical industry are being recalled, the industry remains weak. However, respondents anticipate chemical production to grow from current depressed levels if interest rates stabilize or fall further over the next quarter since demand for the state's chemical products stems largely from the credit-sensitive auto and construction industries. Drilling activity in south Louisiana continues its gradual upward trend. Over 39 percent of rigs are now working compared to 68 percent a year ago. The region's many paper mills are operating near capacity. Industry spokesmen fear that packaging- related orders may slow as the economy cools, but they foresee ongoing strong demand for computer paper and other forms. Defense and space programs are providing additional stimulus. A satellite assembly facility and a cruise missile plant recently began operating In Florida. A major Mississippi defense contractor expects to add 1,500 workers to its payrolls by spring as naval shipbuilding and refurbishing contracts reach the assembly stage. Consumer Spending Southeastern retailers report varied sales gains ranging from 2 to 10 percent for October and November. Mild fall temperatures slowed consumer spending and contributed to the accumulation of unwanted inventories in a few areas. However, generally steady retail sales and increased advertising and sales promotions helped keep inventories at desired levels elsewhere. Electronic items and toys were best sellers in the October-November period. Sales of winter apparel items, especially outerwear, also spurted in November with the onset of cooler weather. Retailers report that prices for Thanksgiving weekend were at "regular discount levels." Although some retailers have lowered their expectations for consumer spending, most expect good Christmas season sales without the need for extreme price discounts to move inventory. Shortages of certain popular models and strike-related sales declines slowed car sales activity in October and the first two weeks of November, but regional auto sales remain sharply ahead of 1983 on a year-to-date basis. Southeastern dealers expect new car sales to continue strong through the first half of 1985. Construction Many builders and real estate agents polled believe that declining interest rates, stable home prices, and increasing personal income augur a rebound in housing in 1985 from the current moderated level of residential construction. Commercial real estate construction continues at a record pace in most major southeastern cities, but vacancy rates are generally high. Miami's vacancy rate edged down to 13 percent, though. Shopping center construction has increased in Birmingham and Miami with the entry of major retailing chains into those markets. Financial Services Loan activity remained strong in October. Consumer and business lending accelerated from the growth rate of previous mouths. The pace of real estate lending at banks slackened in October, but mortgage commitments at savings and loan institutions currently are above the level expected for this time of year, according to thrift officers surveyed. They report that the higher qualifying standards for customer income recently enacted by mortgage insurance companies has not noticeably dampened consumer demand for mortgages. Tourism Vacation tourism slowed somewhat in October, but business and convention travel remains strong. Attendance at many southeastern attractions decreased relative to year-earlier levels. For the first time since the beginning of the year, Florida welcome centers registered fewer visitors. However, hotels and motels increased revenues in October due to increased occupancy and steady room rates in most markets. Miami's convention bookings were 20 percent ahead of year-ago levels. Most regional airports, which, like hotels, serve primarily business and convention travelers, had higher passenger volume than in October 1983. Agriculture Late season weather has changed crop prospects. As a result of extensive rainfall and flooding, Mississippi's estimated cotton yield declined 115 pounds per acre, occasioning a 17 percent revenue loss from earlier projections. Rains and floods also proved damaging to the soybean crop in Louisiana and Mississippi. Production declines in those states, added to earlier drought-induced losses in Georgia, may reduce revenue to southeastern soybean farmers by 9 percent, or $139 million, from 1983's relatively low level.