Summary Total business activity in the Seventh District has been about stable since early this year, having flattened earlier than in the nation. Most District reports suggest relative stability in the months ahead, but concern has been growing that a general deterioration is underway. Auto production has returned to a high level, but only slightly above last year. Steel output has improved since late September, but remains well below the first half rate, and below break-even levels. Machine tool orders are up, mainly from the auto industry. Heavy construction and farm equipment makers, faced with weak markets, are selling off units and closing marginal plants. Cutbacks are occurring in the important health care industry, reversing a long-term expansion. Container loadings on flat cars, which had slowed earlier in the year, slipped significantly in November. Demand for most mechanical capital equipment remains weak. Sales of heavy trucks and trailers have softened recently from high levels. However, surveys show sizable additions to capital outlays next year by the auto and steel industries. Many lines of seasonal retail merchandise are reported moving well, but the 2-year boom in consumer hardgoods apparently has run its course. Retail inventories are viewed as excessive, encouraging price markdowns. Recent declines in paperboard demand partly reflect reduced orders for general merchandise. Residential construction continues to weaken, while nonresidential construction is expanding. District farmers, many in distress because of heavy debts and weak prices, continue to restrict purchases. Recession Fears The plateau in District activity since last spring, coupled with recent declines in factory orders and freight movements, raises the question of an imminent recession. Pressures to reduce or hold down inventories are intense. Our contacts with industries important in the District generally expect relative stability during the rest of 1984 and early 1985, but no precipitous decline. However, some company analysts are warning their managements that the situation is fragile and that a general decline, rather than renewed expansion, is the more likely development. Motor Vehicles Auto makers are planning production at a high level through next year's first quarter, but with only small gains from year-earlier levels. Weaker auto sales in recent months reflect shortages of popular models. Strikes, unrelated parts shortages, and import quotas have limited supplies. Large "availability" premiums are reported on some models, recalling the situation after World War II. Steel Steel production in the Chicago and Detroit areas has improved somewhat from September lows associated with heavy imports, the auto strike, and inventory cutting. However, output remains well below the first half pace. Increasingly. imports have penetrated Midwest markets. usually through steel service centers, often owned by foreign steel producers. Fourth quarter shipments are expected to be about even with the third quarter, in contrast with a normal seasonal rise. Local analysts have lowered estimates for total U.S. mill shipments to around 74 million tons. Next year's shipments are expected to be helped by the Administration's import restraint plan, retroactive to October 1. Capital Equipment Many capital goods manufacturers with production facilities in the region are restructuring and downsizing operations. A major heavy construction equipment producer plans to close five plants. Other firms are consolidating divisions and laying off workers. Producers of most mechanical capital goods face intense competition from abroad in U.S. and foreign markets. Some farm equipment suppliers, long-time leaders in their fields, are selling or writing off money- losing divisions. Farm equipment sales, weak last year, have softened further. Some other types of capital goods, for oil and gas development, materials handling, food processing, and railroad transportation, have improved but from low levels. Easing of orders for heavy trucks and trailers, in strong demand earlier in the year, is expected to reverse when regulations on size limits and routes are clarified. Surveys show further growth in capital spending next year, with sizable increases in outlays by the auto industry and steel. Retail Trade General merchandise sales in the District have been mixed in recent months, with good gains for some discounters and declines, seasonally adjusted, at other chains. Large appliance sales are at record levels, but the vigorous two-year expansion has lost momentum. Furniture demand also has slowed. However, small "traffic" appliances, toys, and other gift items are moving well, raising hopes for a good Christmas selling season. Consumer attitudes, measured in the region, remain optimistic. Inventories are widely viewed as excessive. Markdowns are frequent. Some general merchandise chains have cut back orders. This helps account for an easing in paperboard demand, after an 18-month expansion. Prices on average are about stable and little changed from last year. Residential Construction New housing construction in the region has weakened since about midyear. Despite sizable declines in mortgage interest rates since then, area lenders report softer loan volume. However, with lower rates, the outlook is somewhat improved. Fixed-rate loans are accounting for larger share of the total, due to higher standards on adjustable rate mortgages and a narrower "spread" between rates on fixed- and adjustable-rate loans. Permits for residential construction in District states are 68 percent above the low 2 years ago for nine months, but 58 percent below the peak in 1977. Nationwide, permits are up 80 percent from 2 years ago and only 8 percent below the 1978 high. Nonresidential Construction Office and retail construction continues strong in the Chicago area. Total nonresidential building contracts this year in the five District states (F.W. Dodge data, in square feet) are up nearly 60 percent from 2 years ago, but still more than 40 percent below good levels of the 1970s. The backlog of public works projects is growing, mainly highways, bridges, water and sewer. The amount of road and bridge work next year will depend on resolution of a political impasse in Congress which is delaying release of accumulated funds. Agriculture Following rain-caused delays, the District farm harvest is finally drawing to a close. Corn and soybean prices remain well below year-earlier levels, keeping farm income low. Despite average domestic harvests, record crop production world-wide is forecast for 1984-85. This may dampen the expected recovery in U.S. grain exports. Meat output is down from last year, but above earlier forecasts, largely reflecting increased broiler output. Milk production is running about 4 percent under last year, partly because of federal payments to farmers to cut output. The milk surplus also has been trimmed by higher consumption. Dairy farmers apparently are poised to expand output when the paid diversion program ends in March.