Summary The Eighth District economy has experienced slight reductions in employment levels recently and at least one District state has seen a small rise in unemployment. Though retailers continue to expect a good Christmas season, forecasts for sales through the end of the year have been revised downward. Lower interest rates have spurred small gains in residential construction levels. Total loan growth has increased recently, especially among commercial and industrial loans and consumer loans. Prices of District agricultural commodities remain weak as marketings continue to be sufficient to meet current demand. Outlook Most respondents in the Eighth District expect little change in business conditions through mid-1985. They expect the real volume of sales to go up slightly in the next three months, but plan to keep price and employment levels unchanged. Consumer Spending Retailers continue to expect a good Christmas season though not as robust as forecasted last summer. Sales of durable goods in Memphis were up significantly in early November, while retail sales in eastern Arkansas were considerably above last year's level. Auto sales for early November in the District were just slightly above November 1983 levels. Employment Employment levels in the District have declined slightly in recent weeks as several District firms have laid off workers. A major appliance producer in Kentucky laid off 1,400 production workers and will phase out nearly 300 white collar positions. Kentucky also recently experienced the loss of approximately 900 jobs in the cigarette manufacturing industry. Arkansas lost approximately 2,600 employees in the textile, metal and communications industries. Its unemployment rate rose 0.2 percent to 8 percent in October, but remained below the 8.3 percent rate of October 1983. Business Activity General business activity, as defined by an index of seven indicators, has slowed in Arkansas from a 4 percent annual rate of growth in September to a 2 percent rate in October. Business activity in Missouri declined at a 6 percent rate in October, following a 1 percent rate of increase for the month of September. Construction Housing sales in the District, which have been stable in recent months, seem to be picking up again on a seasonally adjusted basis. Housing market observers expect further improvement through the end of the year due to the recent fall in interest rates. Multi-family housing construction has been particularly strong in the St. Louis and Memphis areas. Banking The growth of total loans outstanding at large weekly reporting banks has picked up after a lull in recent months. The annual growth rate for the four-week period ending November 14 was 12 percent over the previous four-week period. Strong seasonal growth in commercial and industrial loans and consumer loans accounted for the overall increase. The growth of loans to financial institutions and real estate loans was flat. Total deposit growth slowed to a 5 percent annual rate, down from 17 percent a month earlier. All deposit categories experienced slower growth, while large denomination CD levels declined sharply. Agriculture Red meat producers, who had expected sharp price increases during the second half of 1984, continue to be disappointed by price weakness. Cattle prices have been pressured by a 7 percent increase in cattle on feed and a 2 percent increase in marketings over October 1983. Competition from a 5 percent increase in broiler production has prevented sharp increases in hog prices even though hog slaughter in October was 12 percent lower than a year ago. Corn and soybean prices have declined in response to better estimates of this year's harvests. Large foreign and U.S. cotton crops and weak demand suggest further price declines in this market. Little evidence is available to suggest substantial price increases for any of these commodities in 1985.