The economy continues to show a widespread pattern of slowing expansion across both regions and industries. Manufacturing output is growing overall, but most Districts report substantial variation among industries. Retail sales growth on a year-over-year basis is sluggish compared to earlier this year. Auto sales continue to increase more than is seasonally normal. Residential construction is still weak, but lower interest rates are leading to some signs of a pickup. Most Districts note steady loan demand overall, although consumer lending is strengthening in some Districts. In agriculture, crop prices continue to fall while cattle prices are rising further. Agricultural debt remains a concern in several Districts. Manufacturing and Industry Manufacturing is growing slowly in every District, although some industrial sectors continue to perform vigorously. Growth is highest among paper and allied product firms and electrical equipment producers. Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Dallas report strong performance by the former, while Dallas and San Francisco indicate a good showing by the latter. Increased orders from defense firms and the automobile industry are contributing to demand in some manufacturing sectors. The weakest industries are those most exposed to import competition, especially the textile, apparel, wood product, and metal working industries. Boston, St. Louis, Richmond, Chicago, and Minneapolis all report deteriorating performance in at least one of these industries. Several Districts report that inventories are rising, but among those reports only a few indicate that inventories are above desired levels. Input prices are stable or rising only slightly. Uncertainty about future growth is increasing, as evidenced by Chicago's notation of recession fears on the part of some respondents. Oil and gas drilling activity is continuing to improve, but the recent oil price decline threatens the industry's recovery. Consumer Spending Retail sales are increasing on a year-over-year basis, but they are slower than expected in several Districts. Boston and New York attribute slower sales growth to relatively warm fall weather. Richmond, on the other hand, reports quite strong sales. The pattern of sales is also uneven between consumer durables and nondurables across Districts. Many stores are increasing their advertising and markdowns to stimulate business. Respondents anticipate increased holiday sales, but the expectations regarding the strength of Christmas sales are lower than earlier. Automobile sales are above year-earlier levels in each of the nine Districts reporting them. Inventory shortages are responsible for slower expansion in some areas. Availability problems persist, but increased production and recent strike settlements lead many dealers to expect further gains in sales. Construction Lower mortgage interest rates are contributing to an upturn in some previously declining residential construction markets. Philadelphia, Cleveland, and St. Louis report growth in residential construction New York is reporting exceptionally strong residential construction levels despite a shortage of skilled labor. San Francisco, Dallas, Chicago, and Minneapolis note general weakness in their residential markets, although some regions within these Districts are doing well. Atlanta and Kansas City expect strengthening residential construction on the basis of lower interest rates. Nonresidential construction is generally more vigorous than residential. Several Districts comment that commercial construction is proceeding at a strong pace. New York is the exception with ebbing markets for nonresidential construction in all parts of the District except mid-town Manhattan. Banking and Finance Mirroring the slowdown in the overall economy, asset growth is moderating. Commercial lending is remaining flat, although St. Louis reports a recent pick-up in local demand and Philadelphia expects such an increase soon because of continued economic expansion. Consumer lending still appears strong with widespread reports of sizeable increases. Atlanta and Cleveland report slight increases in mortgage lending. Mortgage loan demand is generally steady elsewhere despite the decrease in rates. Several Districts expect a demand pickup in the future. Dallas indicates that declines in oil prices may limit the availability of bank funds to the oil and gas industry. Agriculture The agricultural situation varies among Districts reflecting the diversity of products, weather, and market conditions. Harvests this year will be considerably larger than last year, but declining prices are blunting the possibility of substantial gains in farm income. Atlanta reports that late gains have significantly damaged the cotton and soybean crops in portions of the District. Both San Francisco and Chicago comment on the importance of poor export markets as one cause of low U.S. prices. Improving cattle prices are helping ranchers in many parts of the country, although St. Louis notes that increased herd liquidations are putting downward pressure on cattle prices. The brightest agricultural picture is offered by Richmond where a better growing season and stable input costs are improving repayments of agricultural loans. Several Districts note that many farmers are having difficulty meeting interest payments given current prices.