Overview Although there are presently cross currents at work, the primary thrust of the District economy seems to be forward. Employment appears to be making substantial gains despite seasonal weakness in some sectors. Retail sales have been holding their own and most observers are encouraged by the early indicators of holiday buying strength. Construction activity is essentially unchanged, remaining strong in the metropolitan areas, somewhat less robust elsewhere. Countering all of these positive factors, is what appears to be a sharp contraction in the textiles and apparel industries. Several major layoffs and plant closings around the District have been announced recently, and industry employment has fallen substantially. This contraction is generally attributed to rapidly increasing imports of competing products. Business loan demand seems stable and relatively strong, although there are variations from area to area. In agriculture, an excellent growing season in much of the District, good prices, end a strong livestock sector should make for significantly improved cash receipts in 1984 and some relief on the agricultural credit front. Manufacturing The manufacturing sector must almost be treated as two, since the behavior of textiles and apparel differs sharply from most other sectors. On balance, the District's manufacturing industries are continuing to expand output and employment, and the gains appear significant in some industries, such as machinery and electrical equipment, where year over year gains in employment remain the rule. Building materials and furniture production and employment have apparently stabilized after several months of ups and downs. Textiles and apparel, on the other hand, after a year of little change, began cutting back employment and output, severely in some cases. As noted, the import situation is a major factor. Nationally, 1983's record for textile and apparel imports had been broken by the end of September. Inventories at the manufacturing level are essentially stable and there is little noticeable dissatisfaction with present levels. Current plant and equipment capacity also remains basically at desired levels, and there is little inclination on the part of most manufacturers to alter existing expansion plans. Prices in the manufacturing sector continue stable, with no significant upward pressure apparent in any sector. Coal production in the District, as in the nation, fell rather substantially after the BCOA-UMW negotiations were completed. Nonetheless, production, year to date, remains well ahead of last year, and record output is still within reach. Another segment of the District bringing in an outstanding year is the ports. Although much of the traffic is in imports, activity, particularly at the District's larger ports, has been very strong. Consumer Activity Consumer spending in the District has been quite strong for some time, and indications are that it remains so. Earlier, there was some trepidation among retailers, but recent developments have apparently relieved it. Early indications are that the holiday buying season got off to a good start. Most observers think that sales will be up from a year ago, and thus, quite healthy. Even before the seasonal kick-off, durable goods sales which sagged in late summer, had rebounded and were making gains relative to other product lines. Although retailers had expressed some concern over inventory levels, their fears on that front seem to have been quieted as well. Part of the improvement in retailers attitudes arose from their perception that sales were doing well despite unfavorable weather conditions. Construction In general, the construction industry In the District is staying busy. Variation persists, particularly between the larger cities and smaller towns and rural areas. There are presently indications, however, that industrial projects are lending support to a number of localities outside the urban areas. Within the metropolitan areas commercial and residential construction are still doing well, apart from seasonal factors. There are indications, however, that in some of these areas multifamily residential markets have or are about to weaken while excess supplies are worked off. Agriculture The agricultural sector of the Fifth District should experience or economic rebound in the current year. An excellent growing season throughout most of the District, good prices, and a strong livestock sector should provide $8.15-$8.20 billion in cash receipts for 1984 about 10-12 percent above the drought reduced 1983 level, but only about equal the 1982 mark. The cost of production should exhibit only modest increases over the same period, leaving the net income of farmers substantially improved over the 1983 position. The improved income position of District farmers is expected to show up in the District agricultural credit picture. The quarterly survey of agricultural credit conditions indicates that agricultural loan repayment rates are improving at District banks. In addition, short and intermediate loan demand is strengthening although the demand for long term loans remains weak. District farmland prices are stabilizing. Outlook The outlook around the District has improved somewhat in recent weeks, although most respondents see activity as essentially flat in coming months. Apart from the textile and apparel sectors, the improvement in outlook seems to have arisen as activity continued at levels previously considered unsustainable. The trade deficit remains a major concern, particularly among the textile, apparel, and furniture manufacturers. Their attitudes are clearly less buoyant than those in other sectors. Consumers and retailers are confident, particularly since recent sales activity has improved. There remains little concern with the prospect for inflation.