Introduction The pace of economic activity in the Second District has been uneven in recent weeks. Retail sales slowed significantly in October and early November, while purchasing managers reported significant improvement in business conditions in October after a sharp slowdown in September. The first reports on the Christmas season were mixed. Over the Thanksgiving weekend, department store sales were on or above plan, but several retailers had advertised heavily and cut prices. Homebuilders remain busy and skilled labor is increasingly scarce. The office market, in contrast, is weakening almost everywhere outside of midtown Manhattan. Thus far, the demand for mortgages and consumer loans has not responded to the recent decrease in interest rates. Consumer Spending Second District retailers report a weakening of consumer sales in October and November. Unseasonably warm weather was cited as the cause of the slow sales of winter clothing through most of the period, yet only one merchant reported sharp increases when the weather cooled in mid-November. As a result, most stores report unplanned increases in their inventories. Over the Thanksgiving weekend, sales at many stores showed some improvement, with increases over 1983 ranging from flat to 39 percent. However, the promotional environment has been escalating and some retailers reported needing aggressive advertising and price cuts. Business Activity During recent weeks the pace of economic expansion showed some improvement after the September slowdown. In Rochester, the percentage of purchasing managers reporting improved business conditions rose substantially in October; in Buffalo the percentage reporting declining orders fell. Inventories were steady to slightly higher and remain at satisfactory levels. Several New York firms plan to increase production end hiring as a result of newly-awarded government contracts and urban development grants. Additionally, a Japanese electronics firm will build a U.S. headquarters complex in Mahwah, New Jersey on the site of a large plant closed in 1980. A recent report indicates that New York City's employment growth during the recovery extended to all five boroughs, in contrast to past years when most job gains were concentrated in Manhattan. Employment increases in Brooklyn and the Bronx reversed a six-year pattern of decline. Construction and Real Estate Residential construction activity remains intense. New contracts for home construction are being written by some upstate builders at a rate that exceeds even the rapid pace of last summer. In downstate New York, however, a shortages of skilled labor in parts of the metropolitan area are reportedly worsening and the delays have been very costly to some homebuilders. In parts of New Jersey, planning for multi-family housing is picking up as court-ordered down-zoning is gradually being implemented. Additionally, for the first time in several years, New York City is sponsoring the production of rental housing without Federal subsidy. Observers across the entire District, however, report slower absorption of office space in almost all areas, with parts of Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey especially sluggish. Potential renters of office space appear to be taking a "wait and see" stance before signing leases. Observers also believe that plans for many construction projects not yet started an likely to be postponed. The one exception to this softening trend is in midtown Manhattan, where demand is still strong and inventories of rental spaces are low. Financial Developments Despite the drop in interest rates since August, several regional banks said they experienced little or no increase in the demand for mortgages and consumer loans beyond the normal seasonal variation. One reason mentioned for the weakness is that their mortgage end consumer loan rates have not dropped as much as open market interest rates, and consumers are said to be delaying their borrowing in anticipation of a further decrease in the bank rates. The banks also reported that for new mortgages, fixed rate instruments have become more popular in the last few months.