Reports from Sixth District business contacts indicated that economic activity expanded at a modest pace in June and early July. The outlook for the rest of the year remains optimistic for most firms.
Retailers noted mixed sales results and vehicle sales grew at a robust pace. The hospitality sector continued to experience strong demand. Most brokers and homebuilders reported increases in sales and prices, and declining home inventories. Commercial contractors cited improvement in overall demand and a slight increase in construction. Manufacturing firms indicated that activity grew, albeit at a slower rate than in our previous report. Loan demand remained stable for residential real estate, while loans for autos outside of the dealership remained constrained by competitive offers from auto manufacturers. Employment growth for the District was modest. Firms remarked that stable input prices have helped improve profit margins slightly.
Travel and tourism activity continued to exceed expectations. Contacts throughout the District reported that key indicators of demand (visitation, hotel occupancy, average daily rate, and revenue per available room) and profitability were positive and steadily rising. In spite of increases in accommodation rates, demand remained strong with advanced bookings for the next three to six months increasing to levels above those from a year ago. With strong convention and group meeting activity planned for the remainder of 2013 and positive lead volume for 2014, District hospitality contacts anticipate the positive momentum of 2013 to continue in 2014.
District homebuilders reported that new home sales and construction were ahead of year earlier levels. Recent activity was mostly in line with expectations and buyer traffic remained strong. However, builders noted that access to financing and a shortage of developed lots continued to constrain construction activity. Most contacts reported that new home inventories were below the year earlier level and prices rose modestly. The outlook for construction and new home sales remained positive, but the outlook for growth moderated somewhat compared with our last report.
District commercial real estate contacts indicated that demand continued to improve from earlier in the year. Construction activity was described as flat to slightly up from earlier this year and was dominated by build-to-suit projects and renovations of existing space. While a wider variety of projects seems to be in the works compared with a year ago, activity was still concentrated in medical office space, certain types of retail, and apartments. Commercial brokers indicated that demand for space improved at a modest pace. Brokers reported that most markets still favored tenants; however, rate increases continued to be noted in select submarkets. The outlook among District commercial real estate contacts remained positive with further improvements expected this year.
District port contacts cited notable year-over-year growth in container trade, autos and machinery, and bulk cargoes, including a significant increase in the exporting of natural gas. Trucking companies cited a rise in shipments of building construction materials, as well as chemicals; however, capacity remained constrained due to driver shortages. Total year-to-date railroad volumes were reported to be flat through June, but significant activity was noted for petroleum-related products and other chemicals, forest, lumber and wood products, and metallurgical coal.
Some bankers indicated vigorous competition for loans has led them to change loan features, such as relaxing guarantee requirements or covering a substantial chunk of closing costs. Local community bank contacts had eased up on covenants and guarantees and were willing to take more risks, particularly when a loan fit a category in which they were interested.
Some businesses were courted with offers to refinance debt with eased covenants and restrictions, while others indicated financing was still a major impediment to new construction projects and securing funding remained difficult.
In general, most input costs remained relatively stable, helping to support slightly stronger profit margins in the face of improving, but still below pre-recession sales levels. Some notable exceptions were costs related to construction materials such as lumber, concrete, and drywall, which increased for a number of contacts. The Atlanta Fed's Business Inflation Expectations survey showed year-ahead unit cost expectations ticking down from 2 to 1.8 percent in June, marking the lowest reading since January.
Since our last report, soil throughout much of the District improved to more favorable, drier conditions. Pasture conditions improved as well.  Monthly prices paid to farmers were up for cotton, soybeans, corn for grain, rice, citrus, hogs, and broilers. During this same period, beef prices were down slightly, but still moderately higher than this time last year.
