Economic activity in the First District continues to expand at a moderate pace, according to business contacts. Retailers, tourism contacts, manufacturers and consulting and advertising contacts all report modest increases in sales. Commercial real estate conditions are improving or holding steady, depending on location. Residential real estate contacts report increases in both house prices and sales. Overall prices are rising at a modest pace, generally in line with cost increases. Most businesses are holding employment steady, with substantial staffing changes only at firms experiencing significant increases or decreases in sales. Contacts generally expect the recent trend of moderate growth to continue.
Through May, hotel revenues are up 1.5 percent year-over-year. Restaurant revenues are up 2 percent, slightly better than expected. Contacts attribute these increases to strong corporate business travel and entertaining. There is some softness in domestic leisure travel, as attendance at museums and other attractions is below expectations. Some of this decrease might be due to record-setting rainfall in New England during June. Contacts expect that leisure travel will increase during the summer travel season.
Only one of our contacts cites significant staff reductions, the same firm that notes declining sales. That said, the only firms hiring in any significant way are rapidly growing companies in the technology and life science areas. Most of our contacts, 8 of 13, report no change in employment.
All of our contacts, including the one with declining sales, say that their investment plans have not changed and most report the same or higher levels of investment for 2013 as for 2012. Our contact at the firm with declining sales says that they try not to let the business cycle affect investment decisions as, "A good investment is a good investment."
As far as pricing is concerned, no one reports anything out of the ordinary. Firms that need to raise prices, typically, appear to be able to do so; some raw materials prices, like copper, are less of an issue than they were a year ago.
Contacts report either no cost growth or costs rising roughly in line with 2 percent inflation, with the exception of one firm whose health and business insurance premiums rose 8 percent to 10 percent on an annual basis. Firms were roughly split between those facing pressure to keep rates flat and those with robust enough demand to institute rate hikes of 3 percent to 5 percent on an annual basis. About half of contacts report no net hiring, with the others increasing their workforces by 3 percent to 5 percent, mostly through larger incoming classes of entry-level workers beginning this summer. Firms reporting no net hiring were split between those who are waiting for stronger demand to justify hiring and those who hired rapidly in the recent past and are trying to adjust to their new size.
Aside from a government contractor who is too uncertain about the future of fiscal policy to offer any clear forecast, contacts expect growth to either pick up or remain strong for the rest of the year. Aside from the government contractor, contacts were minimally concerned about fiscal issues, the European debt crisis, and the state of the macro economy.
The outlook among First District contacts is for slow improvement in fundamentals for the rest of 2013, but some downside risks were noted. For example, a gun manufacturer in Connecticut announced plans to relocate to South Carolina in response to the state's passage of stricter gun-control laws, taking jobs out of the state and vacating a significant amount of commercial space. Other gun manufacturers in the state are reportedly likely to follow suit in the coming months. A seasonal slowdown in leasing volume is expected in Providence for the summer months, and a few contacts across the District mention interest-rate movements as a considerable source of uncertainty for investment sales moving forward.
Contacts expect sales activity and the median sale price to continue their upward trend. Inventory levels will likely remain an issue in urban areas due to a lack of new construction there. Contacts anticipate that homeowners may be more inclined to list their home for sale as house values continue to appreciate. Overall, contacts feel the market remains poised for healthy growth in the coming months.
