The Ninth District economy showed signs of moderate growth. Increased activity was noted in consumer spending, professional services, manufacturing and energy. Tourism-related activities slowed in May and June in some areas, but tourism businesses were optimistic for the summer season. Commercial construction and real estate grew moderately fast, while residential construction and real estate grew at a robust pace. The mining sector was sluggish, and agriculture decreased. Labor markets continued to tighten slightly, and wage increases were moderate. Price increases were subdued since the last report.
While wet and cool weather slowed May and June tourism-related activities in some areas, tourism businesses were optimistic for the summer season. New boat registrations in Minnesota were down 17 percent in 2013 compared with the same time period in 2012. Nevertheless, a Minnesota state tourism office survey of lodging and camping businesses in the state showed that 38 percent expect higher occupancy this summer with 46 percent expecting level occupancy. After a slow start to the summer season, lodging reservations and traffic to tourism destinations in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan have picked up. In Montana, lodging and visits to attractions during the first part of summer were up from last year.
Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the last report. The University of St. Thomas semiannual survey (May) of 50 Minneapolis-St. Paul commercial real estate leaders noted higher rents, occupancy, land prices and building material costs. Minneapolis-St. Paul area second quarter vacancy rates dropped from the first quarter for retail and industrial space, according to a research firm. Residential real estate market activity increased at a robust pace. May home sales were up 13 percent from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was down 22 percent, and median sale prices rose 15 percent. In the Sioux Falls area, June home sales were up 16 percent, inventory was down 15 percent and the median sale price increased 5 percent relative to a year earlier.
Wage increases were moderate. According to a recent St. Cloud (Minn.) Area Quarterly Business Report, 52 percent of respondents expect to increase compensation over the next six months, while 45 percent expect no change. In last year's survey, 38 percent expected to increase compensation, while 58 percent expected no change.
Price increases were subdued since the last report. A Minnesota-based food producer noted that it expects input cost inflation of 3 percent this year. Metals prices decreased over the past month. Minnesota gasoline prices decreased 90 cents per gallon from a spike in prices at the end of May; recent prices were about the same as a year ago.
