Summary Economic prospects for the Seventh District have deteriorated in the past month or two, at least for the short term. Most observers still anticipate improvement late this year and in 1982. Current high interest rates clearly are dampening many activities. Forecasts for a number of sectors have been scaled down. However, there is little fear of a precipitous decline such as that of the spring of 1980. The new fiscal package is viewed favorably by most executives, but no substantial early benefits for business are foreseen. Demand for workers is very weak, but some unions have won large gains in compensation and labor unrest is rising. Consumer outlays apparently slowed in July. The higher value of the dollar has encouraged some imports and discouraged some exports. Residential construction remains depressed and some nonresidential projects have been postponed. Crop prospects are favorable, but farm income continues weak. Business attitudes Important district industries have scaled down their forecasts for the remainder of the year. Included are agricultural, construction, and industrial equipment; motor vehicles, electronics, cement, steel, paper-board, and the airlines. Purchasing managers reported declines in employment, new orders, and backlogs in July. Value of the dollar The higher exchange value of the dollar has had some impact on imports and exports. A number of exporters attribute a decline in demand from Western Europe to this development. The local Department of Commerce office notes a substantial drop off in inquiries from abroad concerning availability of U.S. products. Employment Despite improvement from last year's depressed level in some sectors, particularly motor vehicles, payroll employment in our five-state area was 4 percent below two years ago in June, compared with a rise for the nation. Total employment was off at least 5 percent in the two year comparison in Indiana, Iowa, and Michigan, and manufacturing was off more than 11 percent in these states. Help-wanted ads are about at last year's reduced level. Employers report very heavy response to ads for vacancies of various kinds. Very few employers, public or private, are hiring actively. Labor unrest Despite slack job markets, various labor groups have obtained large gains in recent negotiations. In the building trades, carpenters, cement masons, and laborers won 10.5 percent first year increases in wages. Heavy equipment operators struck on July 20 in the Chicago area after turning down an offer of a 12 percent increase. Chrysler workers, having accepted wages well below those paid by competitors, are aggravated at reports of salary boosts for executives and designers. Inflation Prices of petroleum products are down slightly, and cement is off sharply. But most prices continue to rise. In July, 68 percent of reporting Chicago-area companies paid higher prices than in June and only 2 percent paid lower prices, a marked acceleration compared with a year ago. Business equipment prices will average at least 10 percent higher this year. Even larger increases are being reported for utilities and mass transit. Inventories Further involuntary increases in inventories have occurred in motor vehicles, farm and construction equipment, and, possibly, steel. Most other retailers and manufacturers insist stocks are under close control. Capital goods Prospects for a revival in demand for equipment have dimmed. Particularly weak demand is reported for machine tools (although backlogs are substantial) and equipment for agriculture, construction, railroads, and trucklines. The construction equipment outlook is grim, and smaller and weaker companies are forced to consider sales of plants or mergers. Oil field equipment and apparatus for regulating energy consumption in buildings are among the few bright spots. Motor vehicles Third quarter output schedules for both cars and trucks have been reduced because of poor sales. Layoffs are rising again because of model changeovers and extended summer shutdowns. Steel Steel executives have grown less optimistic about demand this fall. Service centers are buying steel more cautiously. Operating rates for Chicago-area mills are generally higher than for the nation because facilities are more modern on average and because imports are less of a factor here. Consumer buying Domestic auto sales are lagging last year's poor level, and manufacturers are offering rebates and subsidized interest to attract customers. A very large general merchandiser is pleased with sales gains in July and early August, but some of its competitors have done less well. Price competition is reflected in reduced profit margins. Airline traffic was down 8 percent in June and 6 percent in July. The major airlines were in serious trouble before the devastating controllers' strike. Housing The housing market remains depressed throughout the district. Chicago-area permits in the first half were up 37 percent from last year, but 78 percent below the 1977 peak. Mortgage rates are in the 17-18 percent range plus 3 points and fees. Few potential buyers can manage the high monthly payments. S&Ls are now offering AMLs, some exclusively. Much of the lending activity at S&Ls involves transfers of existing loans with "blended rates", and a variety of novel features. Some S&Ls have been forced into joint ventures with builders to avoid foreclosing on projects. Nonresidential construction Since July 20 the equipment operators' strike has halted work on many projects in Northern Illinois. Starting last spring many smaller commercial projects were postponed because of high interest rates. In July work was stopped on two large buildings for similar reasons. Foreign investors are providing financing for large downtown buildings in increasing volume. Agriculture District crops are rated "good to excellent" following near ideal weather. Harvest estimates have been scaled upward. Crops in the eastern Cornbelt remain vulnerable to an early frost because of late plantings. Corn and soybean prices are now well below year ago levels. Export demand remains sluggish. District farmland values rose about one percent in the second quarter to a level almost 14 percent above year ago. (These prices have quadrupled since 1973.) The slower rate of increase in the first half is attributed to low farm earnings and high interest rates. District agricultural banks have ample funds, but loan demand remains slow. Loan rates at these banks are at a new high and are above the rates charged by other farm lenders.