Summary Little change in business conditions is expected through next April. In the third quarter, District nonfarm employment grew faster than in the nation despite a regional decline in manufacturing employment. Residential construction activity increased in the third quarter, while nonresidential construction declined. After heavy consumer spending in August and September, District retail sales declined in October. District lending activity in August through October was characterized by strong consumer and sluggish commercial lending. Record yields for most District crops were recorded, despite heavy November rains that delayed the completion of the harvest in some areas. Outlook Slightly more than half of the 240 District small businesses surveyed in October expect business conditions to be about the same through April 1986. Although 42.5 percent expected an increase in real volume through next January, only 17 percent thought the period was a good time to expand and most planned no change in employment levels, average compensation, or prices. Business Activity Business activity in District states, as measured by an index of seven indicators, exhibited widespread weakness in recent months, After only moderate gains in all four states in July and August, the indices declined in September in Arkansas, Kentucky, and Tennessee and rose only slightly in Missouri. Employment Eighth District nonfarm employment grew in the third quarter by 2.9 percent (annual rate) exceeding the national rate of 2.5 percent. Third quarter strength in the District nonmanufacturing sector offset a 2.3 percent decline in manufacturing employment. The District unemployment rate remained unchanged in September from the August rate of 8.3 percent. Construction District residential building contracts increased 2.0 percent (simple rate) in the third quarter but were only 0.2 percent higher than in the same period last year. Although nonresidential construction declined 2.8 percent in the third quarter, the level was 20.3 percent higher than year-ago levels. Consumer Spending Despite an August increase, District retail sales declined 1.1 percent last summer (June-August) from the previous three-month period. Recent reports suggest the August expansion continued into September, resulting in a strong third quarter. Vigorous auto sales in response to low financing rates on domestic models and greater availability of imported cars contributed to the expansion. Reports from Mississippi, Tennessee, and Arkansas indicate retail sales, particularly car sales, declined sharply in October from September levels. Banking and Finance For the three-month period ending October, total loans at large District banks grew at a 6.6 annual rate. This activity represented a slower rate of growth than that recorded for the same period in 1984 and was characterized by sluggish commercial lending and strong consumer loan volume. Commercial loans declined at a 9.0 percent rate compared with a 5.0 percent increase last year. Consistent with recent experience, consumer lending has grown more rapidly over the past three months (26.9 percent) than for the same period last year (11.2 percent). Real estate lending slackened, growing at a 4.5 percent rate during the three months ending October compared with a 13.0 percent rate over the same period last year. Total deposits grew slightly over the three most recent months, with increased activity in MMDA and NOW accounts. Agriculture Harvests of most District crops have been completed with record- breaking yields in many instances. Heavy rains in November, however, have slowed the corn harvest in northern sections of the District. Soybean harvests also have been delayed in southern sections of the District where soybeans are harvested later due to double cropping. Efforts to unify and consolidate lending operations at the farm credit banks of Louisville and St. Louis are making some progress. Stockholders of 32 out of 35 production credit associations (PCA's) in the St. Louis farm credit district have approved a proposal to merge their associations into a single PCA for the purpose of more effective pooling of resources. A similar proposal is pending for federal land bank associations. The Louisville District will offer a similar plan to stockholders in the coming month.