Summary Recent developments suggest a relatively stable near-term outlook for business activity in the District, no new vigor and no significant setbacks. Growth of total employment in the District continues to trail the U.S. Auto and light truck output are expected to remain strong into 1986. Steel production and orders continue at disappointing levels, with strength mainly in motor vehicles, appliances, and construction, and at service centers. Demand for most types of capital goods remains weak, not getting worse, but not improving either. Residential, commercial, and highway construction are strong, but generally far short of past peaks. Sales of suburban industrial buildings have picked up. Inventories are judged to be fairly lean. General merchandise sales recently have been sluggish. Modest recoveries in grain and livestock prices in recent weeks have been encouraging, but far from sufficient to alter the distressed conditions facing the District agricultural sector. St. Lawrence Seaway Round-the-clock repair work on the 53-year old Welland Canal allowed vessels to resume passage of this section of the St. Lawrence Seaway on November 7. A line of waiting vessels had grown since October 14 when a 150-foot concrete section of a lock wall collapsed. The 24-day cutoff caused consternation among ship operators, shippers, sailors, and terminal employees directly affected, but no significant wider impact on output and employment in the District. Attractiveness of the Seaway for shippers is limited by the winter closing, bottlenecks at locks in peak periods, availability of improved and often cheaper and faster alternative means of transport, limits on size of vessels which increase costs, and vulnerability to delays caused by accidents or breakdowns. The Seaway has never played the major role envisaged for it when it opened in 1959. Motor Vehicles Auto sales fell sharply as expected in October, after being boosted to record levels in September by auto makers' buyer incentive programs. Inventories, very low at the end of September, have been increased to more normal levels. Domestic auto makers plan high production levels into next year. Truck sales continue to set records, but the strength is in light-duty models, especially imports. Sales of heavy-duty trucks have declined, and growth of demand for medium trucks has slowed. Steel Total demand for steel continues slow. Buying by heavy capital goods producers remains soft. Strength is concentrated in motor vehicles, appliances, and construction. Shipments to steel service centers also continue strong, as steel users try to hold lower inventories. Major steel producers, whose steel operations have been at unprofitable levels, are attempting to push through price increases. Capital Goods Orders for most types of mechanical business equipment are still slow. Oil development gear and food processing equipment are off substantially from last year. Farm equipment remains severely depressed. An airline recently announced a 'record' order for aircraft, but the only firm order was for 20 aircraft to be delivered starting in the fall of 1986. As a result of the decline in the foreign exchange value of the dollar since February, some District equipment manufacturers are receiving inquiries from abroad again after a long lapse. Although there is only limited evidence yet of increased orders for mechanical capital goods as a result of the lower dollar, one District company reported that some orders are being placed with domestic suppliers for types of machinery which had previously been ordered abroad, in response to the shift in relative prices. Nonresidential Construction Over the past year, and since the end of recession in 1982, nonresidential building has risen more vigorously in the District than in the nation, despite weakness in Iowa, but remains far below the good levels of the 1970s. The rise in Michigan has been strongest. Commercial construction, mainly stores and office buildings, has accounted for much of the increase in activity, Office vacancies are large and growing as new buildings are completed. However, new starts on major office buildings in downtown Chicago are expected. Commercial mortgage rates have eased about 1/4 percentage point since September, to 11 percent on 10-year loans and 11-1/2 percent on 15-year loans. The resale market for smaller industrial and warehouse properties in suburban areas of Chicago has strengthened significantly in recent months. Overbuilding in industrial parks is being absorbed rapidly. But construction of large manufacturing buildings is at a low level, except for motor vehicle assembly plants and parts plants of domestic and Japanese companies. Highway construction, mostly repaving, continues strong. Residential Building Construction of housing has continued to recover in the District, but is still only about half of the pace of 1978. Recovery has been uneven, with Michigan up most strongly, and Iowa weakest. Used home sales, which did not fall off as sharply as new homes in the recession, are highest ever (number of units as well as dollars) at some large realtors. Residential mortgage rates have eased slightly. Lenders and mortgage insurers are applying tighter standards, but credit is readily available for qualified buyers. Last year's market was dominated by first-time buyers. This year more sales have reflected people "trading up". In the Chicago area, there has been a strong rise in apartment construction, but from a low base and not enough to approach past peaks. Consumer Spending Major District retailers report continued sluggish sales of general merchandise. Inventories are mostly within a normal range. Appliance sales have been good. Airline traffic has flattened, and excess capacity has led to severe and widespread price cutting. Increases in prices paid by consumers generally remain low, but rates for auto and home owners' insurance are rising at least 5-6 percent this year in most areas, and much more in some localities. Agriculture Lower meat production and an unusually heavy movement of grain under price support loan with the Commodity Credit Corporation account for most of the recent upturn in farm commodity prices. Corn and soybean production estimates for District states were revised upward again in November. Corn production is projected up 16 percent from last year and soybean production up 24 percent However, wet weather continues to delay completion of the fall harvest Hardest hit areas include Iowa, Michigan, and Wisconsin. Some yield losses will likely result, inflicting more adversity on the financially-stressed farmers affected by the delays. But any weather-related yield losses will not materially alter the fundamental situation of excess grain supplies.