The weather has combined with some other factors to cloud the economic picture of the Southeast economy in the fall. As summarized by the broad unemployment rate yardstick, the regional economy weakened somewhat in September. With the ending of cheap auto financing deals, car-buying plummeted in October, pulling down consumer spending. Total consumer borrowing has slowed as buyers' appetites apparently have been temporarily satiated. Construction activity indicators show that sector rebounding in response to easing credit conditions. The pace of tourism has been uneven and below last year's Fair-boosted levels in some states, and wet weather has further depressed farm revenue estimates, particularly in Louisiana. Employment and Industry Labor markets continued to weaken in September, with the District unemployment rate edging upward to 8.1 percent. Total employment dropped, moderately, for the first time since June. However, trends in factory employment are little changed since the last reporting period. Textile employment, while down sharply from a year ago, has stabilized in recent months. Textile industry contacts are encouraged by the recent weakening of the dollar but they look to the protectionist measures now in Congress for fundamental relief from import pressure. Employment growth in the region's auto assembly and parts plants has plateaued temporarily, but industry spokesmen are encouraged by the planned renovation of an auto assembly plant in Atlanta that will add 900 jobs and the selection of a Tennessee site for a major new assembly plant. Estimates indicate the latter facility will provide 6,000 jobs directly and an additional 14,000 support jobs at part. suppliers' plants. At 11 percent in September, Louisiana continues to have the highest unemployment rate in the region. The petrochemical and oil field machinery industries continue to suffer, with the latter losing an additional 2,400 jobs in the year ending in September. Southeastern timbermen expect lumber and wood prices to remain depressed in the year ahead despite the encouraging building outlook suggested by falling mortgage interest rates. Canadian import pressure is likely to continue keeping prices below break-even levels for many domestic producers. Consumer Spending Most merchants posted moderate gains in October although some stores, including a large national chain, fell short of October 1984 sales levels. On a year-to-date basis, sales activity remains above last year's levels throughout the region, with women's and children's apparel, electronics, appliances, and jewelry the best selling items. Retailers generally are projecting only moderate gains in year-end holiday sales and are consequently holding leaner inventories relative to 1984, when holiday sales were not as strong as expected. October car sales in most areas of the region were off sharply from October 1984 and September 1985 levels. During September, more cars were registered than in any other month in the 1980s. Construction Residential housing markets are slowing as usual as winter approaches, but sales levels are above those at this time last year, probably because of lower mortgage rates. The strong economic performances of Atlanta and Nashville are reflected in their healthy, migration-induced single-family home sales, and projections are for a continuation of high sales levels. Meanwhile, the Miami market is also showing notable growth over last year and the outlook is favorable, while the performance and outlook for Louisiana and Mississippi are poor. Office construction activity also has maintained its mixed growth course. Completion of new space has led to what are thought to be temporary increases in vacancy rates in Tampa and Orlando and to a more lasting increase in Miami. An unusually low vacancy rate makes Birmingham a good market for new construction, and the Nashville retail market is expected to boom in the next year. The Atlanta market keeps zooming along. Financial Services The growth rate in loan demand continues to trend downward for a sample of large commercial banks in the Southeast. October's growth in total loans, although still strong, represents the continuation of an unbroken pattern of softening growth since January. Both consumer and real estate lending account for recent weaknesses which follow unprecedented high growth in such lending earlier in this economic expansion. Tourism Consumer purchases of travel services in the Southeast do not seem to have accelerated appreciably in the fall, although the reports available indicate that air travel increased in September at most regional airports. Auto travel fell in both September and October in most District states, although sharp declines in Louisiana, Alabama, and Mississippi no doubt reflect the unusually high levels of auto travel last year in conjunction with the World's Fair. Attraction attendance showed little growth. State parks, for example, had fewer visitors in October, and most private attractions surveyed had only modest gains. In the lodgings sector, activity was mixed, and hotel occupancies in several markets, including Orlando, remain extremely depressed. Agriculture Low market prices continue to dim revenue prospects for District crop farmers. Louisiana farmers have had to cope additionally with multiple hurricane damage. Apparently, the sugarcane crop suffered most, with its projected yield falling by one-twelfth from earlier estimates. Prospective regional production of grain sorghum and cotton is the highest in this decade; yields of other major crops are also generally favorable throughout the region. The cattle, pork, and egg industries are experiencing low prices and poor returns but the poultry meat producers enjoy profitable conditions.