Summary The Fourth District economy remains lackluster. The unemployment rate remains high and employment shows little growth. Retail sales growth is positive but not robust. Manufacturing activity remains flat with the steel and machine tool industries continuing in difficulty. House sales are strengthening and builders plan to step up construction. Commercial bank loan demand remains moderate. Labor Market Conditions Labor market conditions in the Fourth District remain mixed. Unemployment rates range widely around Ohio's current rate of 9.2 percent (s.a.), from as low as about 4.5 percent in Lexington, Ky. to around 20 percent in some coal mining regions of southeastern Ohio and eastern Kentucky. Manufacturing employment shows little net change in recent months. A survey of manufacturing firms in the Cincinnati area indicates that, on balance, they expect a slight decline in their employment in 1986. Retail Sales Retail sales in the Fourth District improved in October for most non-auto retailers, but sales growth was quite mixed within the District. Year-to-year growth rates of 7 to 9 percent were common in the southern half of Ohio (Cincinnati), but nearer 0 to 4 percent in the northern portions of the state (Akron, Cleveland, Toledo, and Youngstown). Sales of apparel, particularly women's apparel, showed relatively strong gains between September and October, while most hardgoods sales are still moderate or declining. One department store analyst anticipates "near-double digit rates of increase for the Christmas selling period", although in general, retailers are only guardedly optimistic over holiday selling prospects. Similar to the national market, new-car sales in the District are down so far in the fourth quarter because of exceptionally high third-quarter sales. Sales of larger models are especially soft. Import car sales are reported strong and getting stronger. Truck sales are moderate, which is not unusual for this area. Large inventories of used cars accumulated from third quarter trade-ins are beginning to thin out. Manufacturing and Mining Manufacturing activity in the District is flat while coal mining remains depressed. On balance, contacts indicate industrial production is flat or up slightly, new orders are down, and backlogs are falling. Manufacturers are holding employment steady, although one contact reported increasing overtime being worked in his area. Raw materials inventories are falling sharply while finished goods inventories are flat. Prices paid by manufacturers for materials are unchanged. In the steel industry, import competition continues to hold down domestic sales and prices. One senior executive asserts that it will take a very large depreciation of the dollar to get a significant price increase in basic steel. A major steelmaker in Chapter 11 bankruptcy recently negotiated a 16 percent compensation cut with its union, ending a 98-day strike. An aluminum industry executive reports that turmoil in the tin market has spilled over into additional downward pressure on already low aluminum prices. Producers of machine tools continue to report weak orders and low prices. Employment at any firms remains well below its pre-recession peak, and one firm expects to cut employment further next year unless orders improve quickly. Competition from imported machine tools remains very strong. Machine tool orders are weak also because an increasing share of capital spending is for computers and other information processing equipment. A producer of components for heavy trucks reports North American production of heavy trucks and buses is down about 9.5 percent in 1985; the firm expects it to fall another 6 or 7 percent in 1986. A major diversified producer of components for capital goods reports all lines of business are "on hold" except for strength in defense goods. Coal production remains low and the outlook for the District coal industry weak. Housing The optimism evident in District housing markets last month continues unabated. Builders, who had been cautious and waiting for lower mortgage rates, are now stepping up construction plans. District builders expect housing demand to rise steadily in coming months if mortgage rates continue to ease. The confluence of lower mortgage rates, further income advances, the availability of state of Ohio-subsidized mortgage funds, and retention of housing's favored status in pending tax reform legislation has led to a consensus among builders, mortgage lenders, and realtors that favorable housing conditions should prevail through at least mid- 1986. Realtors in the District report a resurgence in both listings and closings in recent months. Particularly strong sales are reported for Columbus, Dayton, and Cincinnati. However, realtors are uncertain how much the recent tightening of private mortgage insurance standards by lenders will reduce the number of prospective house buyers. According to a major mortgage lender, mortgage loan volume remains lower than expected at the current level of mortgage rates, because many potential borrowers are waiting for even lower rates. This lender continues to sell all of its fixed rate mortgages in the secondary mortgage market. Like a growing number of midwestern lenders, this lender may begin to retain shorter-term fixed rate mortgages in its loan portfolio if it decides that prepayments of shorter-term mortgages will be substantially less than on 30-year mortgages. Commercial Banking Overall loan demand at District banks remains moderate. Declines in commercial and industrial loans are being more than offset by gains in real estate and consumer installment loans. Lower interest rates are helping to improve the demand for real estate loans. Consumer installment lending at banks has received a boost from the end of the cut-rate financing through auto dealers, even though car sales have declined significantly. Contacts anticipate a small pickup in business lending primarily because of seasonal factors. While consumer loan demand is expected to remain good, the rate of growth is expected to decline in the months ahead.