Overview Moat reports from around the Fifth District suggest that economic and business activity remains quite strong. Seasonal factors are causing some churning of employment activity, and special factors much as the end of the automobile financing opportunities of late summer and early fall are also causing some confusion. Nonetheless, employment, retail sales, construction, and housing sales are all reported, on balance, to be holding at quite high levels. Retail sales seem to be running well ahead of national trends, with experience varying significantly across product lines and regions. District employment has drawn recent support from construction, government, and to a lesser extent from manufacturing, sufficient to offset seasonal losses in agriculture related areas and tourism services. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the District, after leveling out in the past few months, is showing some signs of trying to bounce off of the bottom reached last summer. Several District states have experienced manufacturing employment gains lately, and even where employment shows continued weakness, average weekly hours of production workers has tuned up sharply. The modest gains achieved in the textile, apparel, and furniture industries a month ago are being held, and in some cases even built upon. Some pickup in textile and apparel exports has developed of late providing some support for these industries, while in the furniture group, strong retail sales are beginning to feed back into production gains. Another encouraging note is found in the attitude of District manufacturers concerning current inventory levels. Although there does not seem to have been any significant change in current stocks, present levels appear to be viewed as about right. For quite some tine, most District manufacturers had found existing inventory levels excessive. Coal production continues to run behind last year's levels despite high rates of consumption and improved export demand. In the Fifth District, production for the year is running more than 5 percent behind 1984 levels (compared to about 3 percent nationwide), despite improved production in Virginia. Consumer Spending Consumer spending is reported to be making major gains around the District. An important factor seems to be that automobile sales continue strong, despite the end of the manufacturers' attractive financing promotions. Car sales are down, to be sure, but remain at what would normally be considered quite healthy levels. Spending patterns in other product lines are being affected by seasonal and weather factors. Warm weather in much of the District has put a damper on sales of fall clothing, for instance. Most general merchandise lines continue to move well, however, as do building materials, food, furniture, and appliances. Housing and Construction The construction industry continues to lend considerable strength to the Level of District business activity. Although recent changes in the level of activity vary around the District, our impression is that on balance construction has at least held its own over the past several weeks, and may have even strengthened somewhat. In addition, sales of houses, both new and existing, continue to be very strong in most areas. In Virginia, for instance, single family dwellings under contract in October were nearly 3 percent ahead of September, and more than 21 percent ahead of October 1984. Year to date the gain has been more than 13 percent. The Financial Sector Financial institutions report some pickup in consumer installment loan demand since the end of the financing incentives offered by the auto manufacturers earlier in the year. That pickup, however, is generally described as slight. More generally consumer loan demand is moderate, and relatively stable.