Summary A mild winter in the Seventh District has boosted activity, and resulted in fewer than usual seasonal layoffs, particularly in construction. Residential building continues vigorous. Construction of office buildings remains strong in downtown Chicago. Industrial construction has slowed. Several more plant closings in the District recently have been announced. Slower car sales have led District producers to scale back production and increase layoffs, but total planned motor vehicle production in the first half is near year-earlier levels. Appliance buying continues at a high level. Supplies of steel for autos and appliances are reported tight as USX gradually returns to production following a labor settlement. Demand for mechanical capital goods remains soft. Though the farm sector continues under serious stress, farm earnings have improved and the decline in farmland values has slowed. Nonresidential Construction Building activity has remained strong, partly because of the very mild winter. Progress on some projects in the Chicago area consequently is three months ahead of schedule. Several more large office buildings have been announced or are being started in downtown Chicago. Slower activity on new commercial buildings had been expected but is not yet evident, though renovation work has slowed. Construction of manufacturing buildings in the region has weakened. Residential Construction The mild winter boosted residential building in the Midwest. Building permits in January, normally very low, were sharply higher than last year in Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin. Home mortgage interest rates in the Chicago area have stabilized at around 8.75-9 percent for 30-year fixed rate loans, and 7-8 percent for the first year on adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs). Our contacts indicate that area lenders are increasingly using interest rates above first-year rates in determining whether would-be borrowers qualify under their ARM programs. Motor Vehicles Plans for car and truck production in the first half remain near last year's levels despite slow sales in January and February. Output reductions scheduled by domestic producers are largely offset by increases at 'quasi-domestic', U.S. assembly plants of foreign producers, located outside the District. Quasi-domestic plants being built in Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan are not yet in operation. Slower sales have led to more layoffs at some District plants. American Motors announced plans to close its Wisconsin assembly plant in 1989, but subsequently agreed to resume critical negotiations over labor concessions. Demand has improved for heavy trucks and related components such as diesel engines. Consumer Spending Major chain stores in the District reported further gains in sales in January and February. Sales of household appliances continue at a high level. A District producer of large appliances again added to employment to meet strong demand. Production of television sets at an Indiana plant is being increased 30 percent, as the producer reduces its purchases of TVs made abroad. Capital Goods Demand for capital goods produced in the District remains slow, overall. Sales of industrial robots are projected to fall 30 percent in 1987, chiefly because of capital spending cuts by the auto industry. Machine tools, large construction equipment, and railroad equipment continue weak. A District producer of sophisticated medical equipment will cut costs by buying, rather than making, certain components and reducing area employment 23 percent. North American sales of farm equipment, of which the District is an important producer, are projected to stay around 1986's low level in 1987. Steel Following settlement of its 6-month work stoppage, USX announced plans to leave shut, probably permanently, more than one-fourth of its steel-making capacity, at plants outside of the District. Despite ample total steel capacity, supplies of steel sheet have remained tight as USX gradually has returned to production. Two other integrated steel-makers with plants in the District announced plans for sizable investments in facilities. Agriculture For the deeply distressed farm sector, recent developments cast a somewhat more optimistic tone. Farm earnings continue to improve because of massive federal payments, lower production costs, and better returns to livestock producers. Higher earnings have contributed to faster repayments on farm indebtedness and indications that the previous up-trend in problem farm loans at banks reversed in 1986. Exports of some agricultural commodities have exhibited a sustained upturn in recent months. But prospects for corn and soybean exports, which are vital to this District's farmers, remain dismal. Farmland values continued to decline through late 1986, but at a slower pace. Moreover, declining mortgage rates, new Federal Land Bank policies for liquidating acquired farm properties, and recent changes enhancing the attractiveness of the federal government's 10-year program for retiring land from production have raised hopes that land values may be close to a bottom.