Some important sectors of the Eleventh District economy remain weak, but signs of recovery are evident. Orders to manufacturers are growing, although very sluggishly. The drilling rig count slipped in February after growing at a fairly steady pace since July. Auto sales have dropped considerably and retail sales remain low. Construction is declining at a quickening pace, chiefly because of reductions in residential building. The balance sheets of District banks reflect the area's general economic performance, which is still below year-earlier levels. District cattlemen are selling their livestock at substantially higher prices than last year. Manufacturing An increasing number of manufacturers are reporting some expansion in orders. Nevertheless, reductions in demand from the weak construction and energy sectors have left most durable goods producers with sales that are unchanged since the last survey. Orders from outside the District are helping to prevent further declines in output by construction-related manufacturers. Stability has returned to the semiconductor industry after two years of declining orders and plant shutdowns. Sales by non-durable goods manufacturers are up slightly, on average, but conditions vary widely among individual industries. Chemical producers report gradually increasing demand. A growing number of District manufacturers, including producers of lumber, paper, electronics, and chemicals, report that the decline of the dollar has led to expansion in orders for their products. Drilling The drilling rig count in the District states fell in February, on a seasonally-adjusted basis, after rising in almost every month since July. Despite the increases, the February 1987 count was 55 percent below that of February 1986, although the year-over-year rate of decline has been slowing. Leading indicators of drilling activity are mixed but overall they point to little if any gain in the rig count. Auto Sales Sales of automobiles fell dramatically in January from December and showed little growth in February, according to District auto dealers. Most respondents ascribed the low sales in part to local economic weakness. They said that heavy auto buying in December, in anticipation of tax law changes, had also diminished recent sales. Inventories have risen as a result. Although dealers hope for some seasonal increase in the next few months, their overall outlook is for continued slow sales. Retail Retail sales remain sluggish and retailers report small cutbacks in employment. Sales of big-ticket items such as furniture and appliances remain particularly low while demand for some lines of clothing is showing modest increases. Most respondents say they expect continued weak sales for the next few months, but they anticipate some gains by midyear. Construction Construction values continue to decline in the District, with the largest reductions occurring in residential building. The number of building permits issued in the District has fallen significantly, with large year-over-year decline in multifamily and, more recently, in single-family permits. Respondents attribute the residential building decline to a large stock of unsold single-family homes and to high vacancy rates for rental units. The values of non-building and nonresidential construction contracts have also showed recent declines. Office vacancy rates in the District's large cities continue to rise. Banking The balance sheets of large District banks still show declining deposits, increased reliance on borrowings, and reductions in some types of loans. Deposit reductions are being led by declines in large time deposits, but transactions deposits are also slipping. Business loans are falling. Real estate loans continue to increase, but at a decreasing rate. Securities holdings are markedly up from a year earlier. In contrast to the situation at the large banks, total deposits at all commercial banks in the District remain stable, with declines in large time deposits offsetting the gains in other types of deposits. Agriculture Income prospects for District farmers and ranchers are mixed. Projected reductions in world cotton supplies, together with increases in world demand, should result in higher prices for cotton farmers. Feed grain prices are down by more than 30 percent from a year earlier and show little likelihood of a marked increase. Feeder cattle are in heavy demand with prices 11 percent higher in mid-February l987 than a year before. In January, the index of prices paid to Texas farmers increased 3 percent from December but still remained slightly below a year earlier. Rising livestock prices we responsible for the increase in the farm price index. The crop component of the index declined and it is substantially below the year earlier level.