Overview Manufacturing activity in the District increased again in February as it did in January, in line with the trend that began last summer. Producers are optimistic that local and national business conditions will improve further in the months ahead. Retail sales rose this past month following an unusually weak January, and store managers remain optimistic that consumer spending will increase moderately as the year progresses. Resort and other hotel room reservations for the summer are running ahead of last year's pace, and 1986 was a good year for tourism in this area. The market for single-family homes continued strong in recent weeks except where depressed by unusually bad weather. Realtors and homebuilders are optimistic about prospects for their businesses and the economy. In agriculture there are signs of some easing in credit conditions. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the region increased in February according to the results of our latest survey. Twice as many producers report increases as report declines in shipments, new orders, and unfilled orders. Producers also report increases in employment and the length of the workweek. Manufacturers reporting increases in their inventories of materials slightly outnumber those reporting declines. Inventories of finished goods appear to have increased. Prices of raw materials rose in the past month according to 36 percent of the producers; 5 percent report declines, Three-fourths of the producers report a change in the prices they charge for finished goods, with the remaining one-fourth about evenly split between those reporting increases and those reporting declines. Responding to a separate survey question, 45 percent of the manufacturers report that, since the first of the year, the prices of their imported materials have risen. Optimism among producers is growing. Sixty-eight percent of this month's respondents anticipate increases in shipments and new orders in the next six months, as compared with 61 percent last month. More than one-third of the respondents now believe they will increase employment and lengthen the workweek over the next six months. As was the case last month, this month's survey indicates that over half of the producers expect improvement in general business conditions over the next six months. Added optimism is evident in that a smaller proportion of the respondents, one eighth this month as compared with one fifth last month, expect conditions to deteriorate. Consumer Demand Retail sales increased in February according to our survey. Fifty- nine percent of the responding retailers report increases in sales and 23 percent report increases in employment. Nine of ten retailers expect that their business activity as well as general business conditions will improve in the next six months. Resort and other hotel bookings for the summer are stronger than last year this time. Overnight spaces at many state parks are already booked to capacity. Public and private sector respondents to a special telephone survey say they expect even stronger tourist activity in 1987 than in the stronger-than-average 1986 season. Tourist businesses expect their profits to rise commensurately. Residential Real Estate Realtor and home builder associations report that sales and construction of single-family homes were quite strong in February, although activity was depressed by unusually bad weather in parts of the District. Industry representatives believe 1987 will be on a par with 1986 if interest rates decline or stay where they are now. Agriculture Our most recent survey of agricultural lenders indicates that farm credit conditions may be easing somewhat. Lenders report fewer instances of farm customers extending or renewing loans; repayment rates, however, remain sluggish. Agricultural bankers report falling interest rates across all categories of agricultural loans surveyed, although these rates are declining more slowly than nonagricultural loan rates. Loanable funds are plentiful, and bankers are actively seeking new farm loans. Collateral requirements remain high, however, because of uncertainty over agricultural income prospects. Financial Several banks and thrifts have extended deadlines associated with their promotions for home equity lines. Approvals have been delayed by the heavy flow of applications.