Assessments of general economic conditions ranged from uneven or steady to improving. Expanding activity or optimism were reported by contacts in the Boston, New York, Richmond, and Atlanta Districts. Cleveland reported slow expansion. Kansas City indicated recent slight Improvement. Chicago noted the effects of the mild winter in that District in boosting activity. Business conditions were described as on an even keel in Philadelphia, steady in Minneapolis, and uneven in San Francisco. Dallas noted signs of recovery but said important segments of the District remain weak. Manufacturing Most reports noted rising orders and activity in manufacturing. Increases were described as gradual or small, overall, by Boston, Philadelphia, and Cleveland. Manufacturers in the Boston, Philadelphia, and Richmond Districts were optimistic about further expansion in manufacturing activity. Orders were described as still very sluggish by Dallas. More production cutbacks or plant closings were reported by New York, Cleveland, and Chicago. New foreign-owned auto assembly and parts plants are being built in the Midwest and Southeast. Capital spending was projected about flat by contacts in the Boston and Philadelphia Districts. San Francisco said many firms plan less capital investment in 1987 than in 1986. Chicago reports that demand for mechanical capital goods remains slow. Cost containment continues as a high priority. Several Districts noted upward pressures on prices. Higher orders were reported for appliances, products used in housing construction, some communications and computer equipment, medical equipment, plastics, chemicals, and paper, attributed in part to the lower dollar. Dallas reports that semiconductors have stabilized after 2 years of falling orders and frequent closings. Atlanta and Dallas report that demand remains weak from the construction and energy sectors. Consumer Spending Most Districts report further growth of non-auto retail sales. Boston and New York said some retailers saw "astoundingly" or "unbelievably strong" sales in February. At the other extreme, retail sales were weak in the Dallas and San Francisco Districts. Kansas City said sales were flat to only slightly higher than a year earlier. Inventories were described as being at generally satisfactory levels, though some respondents told New York that stocks are low. Strength on the East Coast was attributed to the healthy regional economy and, in New York, to buying by foreigners whose currencies have strengthened against the dollar. Retail price increases, resulting in part from the lower dollar, are likely to be moderate. Tourism was described as good, except resort business curtailed by lack of snow in the Minneapolis District. Motor Vehicles Most Districts report improvement in auto dealer sales in February or early March, from very low levels in January following tax- related December strength. Dallas, however, saw little Improvement from the January pace in February, which was attributed to local economic weakness. Dealers there expect continued slow sales. Chicago reported auto production cuts and layoffs at some District plants, in response to slower sales. Demand for heavy trucks has improved. Residential Construction Most Districts report strength in residential building. An exception is Dallas, burdened by a large stock of unsold homes and high rental vacancy rates. Housing markets in Alaska and parts of the Minneapolis District are also soft because of the weak energy sector. Home building permits have trended down recently in the Atlanta District, but builders there are optimistic. Chicago reported that residential building was boosted by mild winter weather, but Richmond said construction in that area was slowed by bad weather. Sizable home price increases were reported in some local markets on the East and West Coasts. Building material costs are expected to rise because of the Canadian duty on lumber exports. Nonresidential Construction Office construction is slowing in most major cities, and office vacancies are high or rising. Chicago, however, reported that work on new buildings continues at a high level in that city. New York said that office leasing has increased. Chicago indicated that industrial construction had slowed in that region. Industrial space is in short supply in parts of northern New Jersey. Extensive work on military bases in upstate New York will be adding to construction activity in that region. Energy and Mining Investment in the energy sector remains very weak, except for construction of natural gas pipelines noted by Atlanta. Dallas reports that the drilling rig count declined in February, seasonally adjusted, after rising since July. February's level was about half of a year earlier, and little or no increase is expected. Minneapolis reported a decline in coal production. Lack of demand for iron ore In that area has led to further layoffs. Agriculture and Forestry Conditions in the farm sector appear to be stabilizing. Chicago reported that the decline in land values has slowed, farm earnings have improved, and agricultural debt repayments are faster. Minneapolis noted improved profits for livestock producers, but crop farmers remain dependent on the government for much of their income. Favorable prices for potatoes and beans have helped stabilize land prices in that area. St. Louis reported that farm incomes have stabilized. Dallas indicated that higher cotton prices are expected to help farmers in that District. Florida citrus growers have benefited from the lower dollar. Frost damaged the southern California avocado and citrus crops, and higher prices are expected for some fruits, vegetables, and nuts. Adverse weather delayed expansion of lumber production in the Atlanta District following imposition of the Canadian tax on lumber exports to the U.S. Demand for southern pine has remained strong. Financial Several Districts reported continued strong growth of home equity loans. Philadelphia noted that a significant portion of usage of these lines was initially to pay down credit cards, but usage has shifted toward net increases in total debt. Some credit card issuers are tightening credit scrutiny in response to higher delinquency rates. New York attributes a slowdown in IRA deposits to confusion over the new tax law, low interest rates on IRA deposits, and restrictions on withdrawals.