Economic conditions in the Ninth District have remained steady so far in 1987. Unemployment rates rose, but most of the increase was seasonal. Consumer spending picked up in February. In resource- related industries, conditions remained mixed. And while some agricultural areas continued to show scattered signs of stabilization, farmers of major crops are still dependent on government programs for much of their income. Employment So far this year, employment conditions have kept steady. Although unemployment rates in district states rose in January, much of the increase appears to be seasonal. Large layoffs of temporary retail workers, hired for the holidays, resulted in higher unemployment rates. In the Minneapolis/St. Paul metro area, however, January's unemployment rate was still 0.4 percentage points lower than it was in January 1985. And the number of initial unemployment claims filed during January in Minnesota was 12.8 percent lower than those filed a year earlier. In South Dakota, non-farm employment was 1.5 percent higher during January than it was a year earlier. A Bank director reports that employment conditions in western Wisconsin appeared to be a little better than last year. But In Montana, unemployment appeared to increase during January. Consumer Spending Retail sales of general merchandise by larger retailers posted solid gains in February. One chain in the Minneapolis/St. Paul metro area reports that February was its best overall month in the last five years or so. That chain experienced double-digit sales gains in almost every major line. Another large retailer also experienced double-digit gains compared to February 1985. This retailer also notes that consumers seem to be using their credit cards more moderately by carrying lower balances and defaulting less. Both retailers say their inventories are at satisfactory levels. Another chain, operating throughout the district, reports that even though general conditions in rural areas have stopped declining, they haven't yet picked up. Sales of motor vehicles, after a very slow January, accelerated in February. One domestic manufacturer notes that its district car sales were much higher, while its truck sales only posted a modest gain. Another domestic manufacturer reports that unusually warm weather seemed to hamper its sales of' trucks and four-wheel-drive vehicles. Existing incentive programs seem to be sufficient to stimulate sales. Housing market conditions in Minnesota are still favorable, although residential building contracts fell throughout the state in January. A representative of Twin Cities realtors is more positive about single-family housing prospects than a year ago. In contrast, housing activity is still way down in Montana's and North Dakota's largely inactive oil-drilling areas. While not all resort areas experienced good winter tourism conditions, many that did had good business. A Bank director reports that one large resort in Michigan's Upper Peninsula had its best season ever, while lack of snow created problems for another resort there. Two observers in Montana report that an influx of Canadian tourists helped resort business there. Resource-Related Industries Little change was evident in the district's major resource-related industries, where conditions remained mixed. In Montana and North Dakota, oil and gas activity remained in the doldrums, and coal production decreased. A continued lack of demand for iron ore was evident from the decision to permanently lay off 400 workers from a northeastern Minnesota ore-processing facility. But demand for forest products remained firm as a result, a plywood plant in Michigan's Upper Peninsula is expanding, says one Bank director. Agriculture Agricultural conditions continued to stabilize early this year. Bank directors note that the winter wheat crop appears to be in good condition in Montana and parts of South Dakota. They also report that livestock prices remained at profitable levels. A Bank director reports that favorable prices for potatoes and beans have helped stabilize farmland prices in northeastern North Dakota, where farm equipment sales have picked up. But major crop farmers are still dependent on payments from government programs. And a lack of snowfall has led some observers in western North Dakota and eastern Montana to worry about the adequacy of soil moisture.