Summary Recent improvements in Fourth District business activity are expected to be dampened by rising interest rates, according to this month's respondents. Despite real improvements, several business economists express doubts that third quarter figures have yet to reflect the extent of inventory liquidation. Steel orders, however, continue to receive an impetus from inventory re-stocking. Capital spending is continuing on a gradual downward trend, but backlogs appear to be strong enough to sustain shipments until a recovery begins in mid-1981. Retailers and automobile dealers report some rebound in sales from the abnormally low levels brought on by the March credit restraint program. Bankers report that business loans have benefited from inventory investment, but consumer loans continue to be weak. Mortgage lending has virtually halted as a result of interest rates that are at or above 13 percent. Outlook While most respondents now acknowledge that real GNP may be slightly positive in the third quarter of 1980, they have not changed their earlier forecast of a slow recovery over the next three quarters. Because this decline was associated with a severe cutback in consumer spending rather than inventories, the recovery will be sluggish. Several economists concur that the consumer's balance sheet is not strong enough to support a strong resurgence in either consumer spending or overall economic activity. They expect little improvement in consumer spending once the catch-up from credit controls is completed. Rising interest rates are expected to weaken a recovery, but most respondents place a low probability on a double-dip recession. A most likely scenario is for real GNP to alternate between small positive and negative changes through the second quarter of 1981. Inventories Several business economists, while encouraged by the turnaround in production and employment, remain cautious with respect to the outlook because of inventories. Although inventories were generally in better shape going into the recession than in past pre-recession periods, a steel economist believes that there has been substantial liquidation of inventories in manufacturing in addition to steel. Several economists state that either third quarter inventory data will show liquidation, or the fourth quarter GNP. GNP forecasts will have to be adjusted downward to allow for a liquidation phase in the inventory cycle. Steel Significant improvements in steel orders, following heavy inventory liquidation especially by service centers and declining import commitments, are reported by industry economists. New orders in September rose consistent with almost an 80 percent operating rate, but actual fourth quarter operating rates will probably be closer to 70 percent. Steel economists report some pickup from the auto industry, but auto production schedules so far have remained conservative. Capital Goods Because of a seventeen month backlog in metal cutting tool orders, machine tool expenditures in real terms have increased, while new orders have continued to decline. However, machine tool producers state that order cancellations are becoming a bigger problem, although not yet comparable to past recessions. September orders may have picked up slightly because of very low August levels and a response to the annual machine tool show. Although a capital- goods producer expects a recovery in capital spending to begin in the first quarter of 1981 at the earliest, several expect the recovery to be centered among small OEM suppliers. Auto suppliers especially have been hurt by weakness in the auto industry and have curtailed purchases of machine tools and parts. Consumer Spending Most of the recent improvement in consumer spending is associated with a rebound from the second quarter credit controls. A durable goods producer believes that if it were not for the severe cutback in consumer spending in the second quarter, consumer spending would still be declining. An economist for a major retail chain states that unseasonably warm weather in September caused consumers to postpone fall and winter apparel purchases. Sales in the first week of October soared, suggesting that the September slump was partly a weather phenomenon. Auto sales in the first week of October have been the best in months for area dealers. Ohio dealers have benefited substantially from a state sales tax reduction from 4 percent to 2 percent since mid- September. (K cars did not qualify for the tax reduction). Several dealers are encouraged by favorable initial response to 1981 models, but they believe that improved sales represent buying ahead and that November and December sales may weaken as a result. Several dealers are concerned about consumer response to the higher prices of 1981 models. Interest rates on auto loans, which in some areas has moved up to 16 percent, have not yet hindered auto sales partly because company financing is available at below market rates. Banking Rising interest rates have not had a significant effect on business or consumer lending over the past month. Business loans continue to be relatively flat, according to several bank economists, with most of the demand coming from inventory financing for companies with large declines in profits. Loans to medium-sized businesses continue to be on a plateau. Although consumer lending rates have moved upward in recent weeks, a bottoming out pattern of consumer loans does not appear to have been altered. Credit card usage rebounded significantly in August from July levels, according to both bankers and retailers. Mortgage Lending Increasing mortgage rates have again resulted in a substantial decline in mortgage lending, according to District S&Ls. Current rates charged by S&Ls range from 121/2 percent to 13 percent for an 80 percent loan, while banks generally are already above 13 percent. An S&L official believes that the volatility of mortgage rates over the past year has been more important than the level in reducing demand. Buyers are still very inflation conscious and perceive real estate as the best inflation hedge. Currently, most of the lending activity is at the lower end of the price range of houses. An economist with a regional FHLB in this District expresses concern that the second half profit outlook for S&Ls may be worse than the first half. Unless rates fall drastically, many S&Ls in the District will suffer net losses. So far liquidity is adequate to meet commitments without relying on advances. Several S&L officials doubt that interest rates will fall back to 12 percent before spring.