Overview Growing concern about the future prospects for business activity is apparent among Tenth District businessmen. An increasing pessimism is evident among auto dealers and in the homebuilding industry, as rising interest rates appear to be dampening activity in those sectors. Lighter inventories are being sought by retailers, and manufacturers are trying to reduce materials inventories. Meat supplies, now plentiful, are expected to tighten next year, bringing higher prices. Loan demand at District banks is generally flat, and deposits are growing moderately. Retail Sales and Inventories The majority of Tenth District retailers surveyed report that sales in the latest three months were slightly better than sales in the first half of 1980. Sales appear to be strongest in apparel and nondurable home furnishings, with some weakness still existing in big ticket items such as appliances and furniture. Remarkably, all District retailers report slight or nonexistent increases in merchandise costs in recent months. A majority of retailers contacted intend to approach the fall and Christmas seasons with lighter inventory levels than last year, which will in some cases require reducing their purchases of merchandise. Most retailers expect only slight sales gains in the last quarter of 1980 compared to the last quarter of 1979. Automobile Sales Recent changes in credit market conditions have adversely affected District auto sales, particularly in Missouri and Colorado, as consumers have become noticeably more reluctant to buy cars since the recent rise in interest rates. Fewer banks are making auto loans, and dealers and consumers are relying more heavily on credit from the automakers' finance companies. Although dealers generally have reduced their inventory plans in the last month, they are still, guardedly optimistic about the 1981 models-though somewhat less optimistic than a month ago. Manufacturers' Inventories and Input Prices. Although almost all of the purchasing agents contacted report a stabilizing of input prices in recent months, over half feel that this trend will not last, and that prices will resume rising by yearend. Most input lead times are considered short, but are expected to start lengthening because most suppliers no longer have excess inventory. Most purchasing agents are ordering less than last year, and are trying to reduce materials inventories. Homebuilding and Home Finance According to Tenth District homebuilders and savings and loan associations, recent increases in interest rates have had a negative impact on the housing sector. New house sales in some areas have dropped to the low levels experienced in the spring of this year, but inventory levels of new homes are not now critically high. Housing starts have slowed to a near standstill, with few builders willing to make advance commitments. Savings inflows have improved slightly because of the lag between recent increases in interest rates paid by savings and loans and the adjustment of fixed rate money market instruments that compete with those associations for funds. Current mortgage rates average about 14 per cent on conventional loans at District associations, an increase of 1 to 2 per cent from two weeks ago. At the higher mortgage rates, demand for mortgage funds has slowed appreciably. Agriculture U.S. meat supplies, which appear plentiful now, are expected to be substantially tighter during most of next year. Hog inventories for Tenth District states are 8 per cent below year- earlier levels, while nationwide inventories are only 3 per cent lower. Although hog marketings for the remainder of 1980 are expected to equal or exceed marketings during late 1979, farrowing intentions suggest a substantial reduction in pork slaughter during the first three quarters of 1981. Consequently, hog prices are expected to improve through mid-1981. September 1 cattle on feed numbers indicate a 14 per cent decline from year-earlier levels in feedlot inventories for Colorado, Nebraska, and Kansas. Marketings of fed cattle during August were 13 per cent below 1979 levels for the three District states. Placements, of cattle into feedlots in the seven major feeding states increased 20 per cent from August 1979 levels, while District states' placements rose 16 per cent during this same period. Feeder cattle prices have increased 5 per cent during the past quarter, but remain 8 per cent below year- earlier levels. Banking Developments Loan demand remains flat at most Tenth District banks contacted this month, with exceptions at some banks in Oklahoma, Wyoming, and New Mexico where local economic conditions remain strong. Commercial real estate lending continues to be strong in Oklahoma and Colorado, but in other areas of the Tenth District all types of real estate loans are weak. Most bankers report that consumer installment loans for automobiles are unchanged from earlier low levels. The recent rise in interest rates has raised bank lending rates significantly above the rates offered by automobile finance companies such as GMAC. Other categories of consumer loans increased somewhat from last month's levels. Deposits at most Tenth District banks contacted rose this past month, with six-month and 30-month certificates showing the greatest strength in response to the rise in interest rates. Demand deposits experienced moderate growth in regions with strong economic activity and are flat in most other areas.