Last month's general feeling of optimism turned to one of concern as higher interest rates threatened to stall the recovery in home building. Consumers are still cautious in the use of credit and are postponing major purchases. Merchants are reacting by keeping inventories lean. Employment brightened in August but may be less buoyant in September due to the ripple effect of slower housing demand and weaker retail sales. Consumer Spending and Inventories Retail sales have been slack in most areas. Home furnishings and appliance sales were weak, and the new fall fashions got off to a slow start, hampered by extended summer-like temperatures. One large retailer noted increased preference for catalog shopping as consumers continued their efforts to avoid higher floor prices. Use of cash is also more prevalent. Although traffic is high at most new car dealer showrooms, sales have only been fair. Dealers are not optimistic about new car sales over the next three months. Consumers are taking a "wait and see" approach on the performance of the widely promoted American-made fuel-efficient cars. Many consider them overpriced. Inventories are at low levels by design, carrying charges have been rising rapidly. Financial and Construction The recent surge in interest rates is slowing home sales throughout the District. The typical 13 1/2- to 14-percent mortgage rate has about eliminated the first-time buyer, and trading buyers are finding difficulty qualifying for conventional financing. There is much uncertainty among building contractors and potential home buyers. They are unable to plan ahead due to rapidly changing interest rates. Savings and loan associations report applications tapering off. Some lenders are returning to a policy of restricting loans only to their customers. Unconventional financing is becoming much more prevalent. One Florida S&L reported good reception to its new equity-participation mortgage. A large south Mississippi supplier reports a sharp reduction in orders for construction materials since interest rates have moved up, and lumber prices in north Florida have fallen considerably from last month's level. About the only market not yet affected by the high interest rates are the luxury condominiums in south Florida as building continues strong. Capital investment plans are mixed at this time. Northern Alabama businessmen are leery of making plant expansions or building inventories because of escalating interest rates, but in south Florida, firms are said to be still expanding with minor exceptions. Backlogs at high-technology companies are the highest ever. In Louisiana, industrial construction is strong due to continued petrochemical expansion. Employment and Industry For the most part, the employment picture has brightened, although there still are some rough spots. Manufacturing employment turned upward for the first time in over half a year. The factory workweek edged up, but hours worked in many industries are still far behind those of last year. Cutbacks are anticipated by the farm machinery and food processing industries as the record-breaking heat wave and drought curtailed crop and animal production. Unemployment continues to escalate in northern Alabama, with renewed layoffs and a "general across-the-board slowdown" by industrial concerns. Datsun, Japan's second largest automotive manufacturer, will build a major truck plant in middle Tennessee. The plant, set for production in 1983 at a cost estimated at nearly $500 million, will ultimately employ 2,200 workers, nearly all of them local. Tourism has shown some slackening in most areas except for southeastern Florida, which continues to attract foreign visitors. Eastern Airlines reported that passenger revenue miles were down 12 percent in south Florida. Deplanements were also off in New Orleans, and hotel reservations in Nashville were down 10 percent from the year-ago level. Agriculture The drought has made further reductions in District crop production; however, additional price increases have offset some of the drag on income. Corn and soybean prices have risen significantly. The cow-calf industry faces a severe squeeze resulting from drought-reduced forage supplies, rapidly escalating feed costs, and feeder calf prices averaging 25 percent below a year ago. Farm credit outstanding is well above year-ago levels, and farmers have made heavy use of emergency credit.