Overview With respect to current and prospective business activity, reports from Reserve Banks this month are generally less optimistic than they were last month. The recent deterioration in financial conditions is seen as responsible for a slowing of economic activity in several districts in September. The rise in interest rates is the major reason many respondents have adopted a less sanguine view of the strength of the recovery next year. The outlook for inflation is about unchanged from last month, with some districts reporting an easing of price pressures and others reporting a resurgence. While commercial lending is up in several districts, mortgage lending has slackened everywhere. Automobile dealers are "cautiously optimistic" on balance about the prospects for the 1981 model year, although there is widespread concern that the combination of high prices and high financing costs will dampen new car sales. However, most respondents agree that it is too soon to know if these factors will significantly weaken car sales in the months ahead. Business Conditions and Outlook With few exceptions the recent rise in interest rates apparently has stalled the recovery and caused many respondents to revise downward their forecasts for 1981, judging from Reserve Bank reports. Boston and St. Louis report little change in business conditions since last month, while the recession is still on in San Francisco. Defense spending is mentioned as a source of strength by Boston and Dallas, but in the latter case this is offset by an expected decline in construction caused by rising interest rates. The effect of higher interest rates on construction also has slowed the recovery in Minneapolis. Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and Chicago say that business has improved since last month, but Cleveland and Chicago are concerned that the recent improvement in steel demand may evaporate if high prices and interest rates weaken auto sales next year. Respondents in New York do not expect the economy to improve significantly before the middle of next year, and Atlanta and Kansas City note that the rise in interest rates has caused growing concern about the future in their districts as well. Prices Where mentioned, district reports indicate that price pressures are about unchanged from last month. While Dallas notes that lumber prices are off significantly from a year ago and purchasing agents in Boston and Kansas City report a stabilization of input prices in recent months, surveys conducted in Philadelphia and Chicago indicated that industrial input and output prices are rising and probably will continue to do so for the rest of the year. Financial Developments The most notable feature of district reports was the widespread decline in mortgage lending due to recent interest rate increases. New York and St. Louis report an increase in the use of VRMs and RRMs; Atlanta notes that equity participation mortgages issued by a Florida S&L have been well received. Auto loans are available and rates and terms generally are unchanged from last month. Business loan demand is strong in Philadelphia, Cleveland, and St. Louis. Deposits are up in Kansas City and Dallas but down in San Francisco. Consumer Spending Although retail sales are reported as steady or up slightly (Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas), mixed (New York, Philadelphia), or sluggish (Atlanta, Chicago, San Francisco), the overall tone of the district reports indicates that consumer spending remains flat in real terms. Hard goods are doing relatively well in Philadelphia, consumers buying in advance of price increases have buoyed big ticket sales in Richmond, catalog shopping is growing in Atlanta, price cutting and sales are common in Chicago, St. Louis and San Francisco, and soft goods are doing better than durables in Kansas City and Dallas. Auto sales are the best in months in Cleveland and are up a bit in Minneapolis, but other districts report car sales are flat or down slightly. Chicago notes that auto loans are available at commercial banks in the 14-16 percent range but that lenders are becoming more selective; Cleveland and Kansas City note that in-house financing at below market rates still is available for some makes; New York, Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas note that the high interest rates are reducing dealers' desired inventories of new cars. High new car prices seem to be at least as important as high interest rates in explaining weak car sales. Most districts conclude that it is too soon to tell what effect these factors will have on 1981 sales volume, however. Residential Construction Conditions in the housing market have deteriorated in the past month in all districts. Higher mortgage rates are cited by all Reserve Banks as the cause of the downturn. Rates have increased as much as two percentage points in some districts (New York, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City) and mortgage demand has dried up almost everywhere. Descriptions of the housing market range from severely depressed (Chicago) to weak (Richmond) with no district citing improved conditions. Business Fixed Investment The outlook for capital spending is mixed. Cleveland, Chicago, and St. Louis see a continued gradual downward trend in overall spending plans. Cleveland and Chicago also note that order cancellations are becoming a problem, although not as severe as in the last recession. On the other hand, Philadelphia reports that increased capital outlays are planned at a third of the firms they surveyed; Atlanta says that order backlogs at high technology firms are the highest ever; Dallas cites an ongoing boom in oil drilling, commercial building, and power plant construction; and New York, Cleveland, and Chicago report strength in sales of machine tools. Inventories Both retail and manufacturing inventories are described as lean but generally acceptable by most districts. New York, Chicago, and Minneapolis note that high carrying costs have reduced desired inventories of some respondents, especially automobile dealers. Agriculture The outlook for agricultural production and farm income is mixed. Drought has reduced crop yields in Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, and Dallas. The resulting price increases are not expected fully to offset the decline in output in these areas, so farm income probably will decrease further. Atlanta and Dallas also note a heavy use of emergency credit in their districts. While Kansas City expects meat supplies to tighten next year, San Francisco expects them to increase. Chicago and Minneapolis are optimistic about the corn and soybean harvests this year, both citing favorable weather and high prices. Academic and Financial Consultants The academic consultants agreed about the current state of the economy but disagreed about monetary policy. Professor Houthakker believes the economy is stagnant and will remain so for another year at least. He thinks the weak economy has restrained price increases, and he expects a modest improvement in the balance of payments and the exchange rate in 1981. Professor Samuelson foresees a weak recovery during the coming year. It is his view that the money growth targets for 1981 are consistent with this outlook and probably will not induce additional weakness. Professor Eckstein thinks the recession is over but that real GNP will expand only 1.9 percent in 1981. He believes 1981 money growth targets may be inconsistent with the prospective growth of the economy. Professor Tobin thinks that the money growth targets for next year are unrealistically low given the high core inflation rate and probably will cause stagnation. He advocates an incomes policy to alter wage and price behavior in addition to restrictive monetary and fiscal policies. The financial consultants urge the Fed to hit its money growth targets. Mr. Riefler argues that the Fed will gain credibility and reduce inflationary expectations only by hitting its announced targets. Mr. Schott believes that the recent round of interest rate increases is related to the deteriorating Federal budget outlook for next year. He thinks another crunch can be averted if the Fed stands firm now. Provided that Ml does not erupt again, reigniting concerns over further interest rate increases, Mr. Wojnilower expects a relatively strong recovery in 1981.