Summary Respondents in the Fourth District expect output next quarter will probably weaken from the first quarter and indeed may decline, but they forecast a more rapid recovery in the second half of 1981 than projected by the Reagan Administration. Near-term inflation may also improve more than indicated in the Administration scenario. Retail sales in the District remain weak, except for auto sales, which have improved in response to widespread rebate programs. Steel orders and shipments are holding up well. Although capital-goods spending has not yet turned around, some signs of bottoming out are reported. Housing is weak, but industry officials foresee declining mortgage rates in the second quarter of 1981. Outlook The Fourth District Round Table forecasts of 28 economists on March 13, 1981, were generally more optimistic for 1981 than indicated in the Reagan scenario. The median forecast shows growth in real GNP of about 2.4 percent between the fourth quarter of 1980 and the fourth quarter of 1981, but with an increase in the implicit price deflator of 9.4 percent and an unemployment rate of 7.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 1981. Only one of the group expects a two-quarter decline in real GNP, as a result of strains in financial markets, while 11 expect a one-quarter decline in real GNP next quarter of less than a 1 percent annual rate. Rates of change in real GNP, according to the median forecast, are expected to accelerate to about 4 percent and 5 percent in the fourth quarter of 1981 and the first quarter of 1982, respectively. Prices and Output Round Table economists were sympathetic with, but doubtful of, the Reagan scenario for prices and output into the mid- 1980s. A bank economist pointed to an inconsistency between a projected decline in money stock growth and double-digit growth rates in nominal GNP during 1981-84, implying faster-than-trend growth in velocity. He acknowledged that even his projections of growth in output of 3 percent to 31/2 percent and 4 percent to 5 percent in the GNP price deflator by 1984 imply somewhat above-trend growth in velocity. Another economist asserted that the Administration's projected growth in output might be achieved and that price performance may be somewhat better than in the Reagan scenario until 1983-84, when supply constraints would reverse the near-term moderating trend in prices. Optimism over the price outlook stems from an expected cyclical recovery in productivity, supported by deregulations that will improve cost performance and by less intense pressure from COLA clauses as inflation begins to unwind. Consumer Spending Recovery in real retail sales in the Fourth District has been weak and well below the national average because of softness in the District's economy. An economist associated with a major national department store chain expects retail sales in the District to continue to be sluggish. Nationally, he expects nominal retail sales to increase 101/2 percent from the fourth quarter of 1980 to the fourth quarter of 1981. Department store sales will increase only 9 percent because of an expected slow recovery in furniture and appliance sales. In 1982, an 11 percent increase in retail sales is expected, with real growth between 4 percent and 41/2 percent. Inflation and the latest Social Security tax increases will slow but not stop the recovery in consumer spending. Auto sales in this District picked up because of the recent rebate programs, which an industry economist estimates boosted new car sales 150,000 units nationally. A foreign car dealer reports a 12 percent increase in sales since the beginning of the year, but does not expect imports to gain market share during 1981. An auto economist notes that high interest rates have not deterred auto sales as much as expected, but have constrained dealer purchases and inventories. He cites a big shift in auto financing from banks and credit unions to auto finance companies, which are offering lower interest rates. Steel Steel orders over the past four weeks have been running higher than expected, according to several industry economists. Even sheet steel has been relatively strong in recent weeks, partly because auto production schedules in March were above February's. Steel shipments in the first quarter will be marginally higher than in the fourth quarter of 1980 and are expected to increase by two million tons in the second quarter, mostly because of seasonal factors. Forecasts for 1981 show a 7 percent increase in shipments from 1980, with the volume of imports no higher than in 1980. The bulk of the improvement in steel shipments during 1981 stems from an end to inventory liquidation. Capital Goods Capital-goods spending appears to have troughed. Noting some firming of orders during the first quarter, a durable goods producer expects a recovery in factory sales of nonelectrical machinery throughout 1981. Factors contributing to the recovery include an expected 2 percent real growth in durable and nondurable goods consumption, a better-than-expected level of construction outlays, a slowly rising trend in capacity utilization rates, and a declining user cost of capital. Heavy-duty truck sales are expected to increase about 8 percent during 1981, with deregulation having no adverse affect on overall truck buying. However, metal cutting orders have continued to slip throughout the first quarter, according to a machine tools producer, and as yet have shown no sign of turnaround. Backlogs have been reduced to less than 14 months from a peak of 18 months in July 1980. Capital spending should accelerate over the next few years because of proposed tax policies and capacity constraints that may surface by 1982. However, economists with steel and rubber producers assert proposed business tax changes will not speed investment until enough cash flow is generated to support higher spending. Housing The bulk of the thrift institutions in the District may show losses through the first half of 1981, but the industry will remain viable, according to an economist with a regional FHLB. Rates on jumbo CDs and money market certificates have declined from three months ago and should allow some easing in the cost of funds and mortgage rates in the second quarter of 1981, according to an S&L official. In addition, deposit flows are expected to be positive, although weak, in 1981. Another S&L official reports that NOW accounts have surpassed expectations, but remain a small portion of total deposits. Housing starts are expected to fall below 1980's pace, according to a major area builder, with funds for speculative building virtually shut off at the present time. A bank economist reports that small builders are under severe financial strain and have contributed to bankruptcies among their subcontractors and to income problems of several area S&Ls that financed speculative building. A bank economist believes that mortgage rates may decline to 13 percent in the near future if the cost of funds continues to ease.