In February and early March, business activity in the Ninth District continued to be sluggish. General merchandise sales along with manufacturing investment and production continued to expand modestly; automobile sales were still poor, although they did rebound from January's very depressed level; taconite mining and lumber milling remained at January's low level; and home and winter recreational spending declined. In addition, price declines and drought continued to threaten agricultural producers. Reflecting these weaknesses was the continued sluggishness in bank lending. Consumer Spending Consumer spending remained slack. Bank directors state that auto sales remained poor in February and early March, but they did rebound from January's very depressed level. The Minneapolis/St. Paul regional sales offices of domestic automobile manufacturers report a 22 percent increase in car and truck sales between January and February. Other consumer spending either failed to pick up or declined. General merchandise sales, according to Bank directors, continued to advance at January's slow pace, and home sales declined. In February and early March, mortgage loan applications at Minneapolis/St. Paul area S&Ls were down 28 percent from January's low level. Along with this decline was a drop in winter recreational spending as unseasonably warm weather and rains sharply curbed skiing and snowmobiling in the eastern half of the district. Industrial Production and Inventories Industrial activity was also weak. Directors' comments indicate that in February and early March manufacturing investment spending and production continued to expand at January's slow pace. This sluggishness continues to be attributed to high interest rates and to uncertainties about consumer and business spending. High interest rates and economic uncertainties, the Minnesota Department of Economic Development reports, are keeping many manufacturers from going ahead with expansion plans. According to a large Minneapolis/St. Paul manufacturer, these factors are also causing firms to cut back on their ordering and reduce inventories. Not only is manufacturing slow, but in February and early March taconite plants and lumber mills continued to operate well below their capacity. Agricultural Conditions Directors continue to be concerned about agricultural conditions. Our last Redbook reported that falling prices and drought threatened the district's good agricultural conditions, and these threats persist. While Minneapolis grain and soybean prices did not change appreciably between January and mid-March, South St. Paul's cattle and hog prices declined about 5 and 8 percent, respectively, during this period. February and early March did not bring the needed moisture, so most of the district is currently classified by the National Weather Service as experiencing moderate to severe drought. Financial Developments Reflecting the weaknesses in the district economy was the continued sluggishness in bank lending. In February and early March, lending at banks throughout the district remained at January's low level, and Bank directors report that banks in their areas have plenty of funds to lend.