Overview The reports from the Federal Reserve Banks suggest little overall strength in economic activity. Current economic conditions are generally characterized as ranging from weak or sluggish to stable, flat, and mixed; with the exception of the Tenth and Eleventh Districts where business activity is seen as somewhat better. Expectations for the future are in contrast to the current situation, with optimism prevalent in varying degrees among most Districts commenting on the outlook. San Francisco's report of "gloomy" expectations for economic activity in the Twelfth District is the major exception. Consumer Spending The current performance of consumer spending varies across the country from improving slightly to remaining sluggish. Dallas, Kansas City, Chicago, New York, and Boston report sales as slightly improving. Sales in the San Francisco, Minneapolis, and Cleveland Districts are described as weak or sluggish, while the Atlanta and Richmond Banks report sales to be essentially flat. Substantial gains in new domestic automobile sales-due to the rebate programs-are reported by most Districts, but the gains are expected to disappear with the termination of the rebates. Manufacturing While manufacturing activity varies considerably from District to District and from industry to industry, there is little evidence of strength. New York and St. Louis emphasize the different levels of activity in various industries, as does Boston where the demand for high technology output is softening. Philadelphia and San Francisco call industrial activity unchanged or flat, while Minneapolis reports current weakness. Cleveland notes that capital goods spending may have reached a trough, but Chicago says that "orders for business equipment remain at depressed levels in real terms." Steel demand, however, is showing surprising strength. Inventories Inventories of both retailers and manufacturers are being kept under tight control, and are generally viewed as being at satisfactory levels. The only significant difference was reported in the Richmond District where, although retailers' inventories are generally at desired levels, there has been some recent buildup in stocks. Also, manufacturers' inventories in the Fifth District are now reported as somewhat higher than desired. Prices Moderation in recent price increases and optimism over the price outlook were reported by some of the Reserve Banks. Although Philadelphia noted that "industrial prices have jumped again in the Third District," Boston, Chicago, and Kansas City reported observations of moderating tendencies in price increases. Optimism about deceleration in inflation was expressed in the reports from Cleveland and Kansas City. Construction Housing activity continues to be weak according to most District reports. Atlanta and St. Louis note an increase in potential customer traffic recently, but with little effect on sales. The effects of weakness in housing include continued depressed demand for home furnishings and building materials (Boston) and great financial strain on small builders (Cleveland). In some Districts (Atlanta, Richmond, St. Louis) strength in commercial and/or industrial construction is helping to offset the weakness in housing. Chicago, however, also reports weakness in nonresidential construction. Dallas stands alone in reporting overall strength in construction activity, with residential construction advancing steadily and commercial activity booming. Financial Developments Reserve Banks generally describe loan demand as flat or weak and sluggish, occasionally noting a direct relationship to weakness in the District economy. Business loan demand is sluggish at large commercial banks in New York, while Richmond and Atlanta note a slight pickup in business loan activity. In the Tenth District, business loan demand is flat-to-weak except in energy areas. Total bank loan volume is up in the Dallas District, with energy-related industries accounting for most of the growth. In both Philadelphia and New York below-prime lending activity has increased. Agriculture In most reporting Districts recent rainfall has eased the problems of low soil moisture conditions. As a result, wheat and pasture conditions have improved in the St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. In the Minneapolis District, however, continued drought and falling farm prices threaten the agricultural sector. Chicago and Kansas City report financial difficulties for livestock producers, and Chicago notes that farm income estimates for the year have been adjusted downward.