Overview Fifth District manufacturing activity appears to have stabilized in recent weeks. New orders are virtually unchanged from the last survey period and shipments have picked up noticeably. Retail sales, except for automobiles, are flat to up slightly but sales of big ticket items have slipped relatively. Manufacturers inventories have begun to accumulate and there has been some further buildup of stocks in the retail sector. Manufacturers still find inventory levels somewhat higher than desired. Residential construction and sales are almost uniformly weak. Commercial and industrial construction, however, shows scattered strength. Consumer loan demand is characterized as weak to moderate. Business loan demand is up but still below a year ago. Expectations of future activity have improved decidedly in recent weeks. Consumer Spending Retail sales other than automobiles have been essentially flat over the past month to six weeks. Auto sales, despite some response to various rebate programs, remain extremely weak. There are also reports of softness in sales of other consumers durables and apparel. Consumers are continuing to favor quality merchandise and are apparently willing to pay the higher prices necessary to get it. Inventories at the retail level have changed little since our last survey and remain generally in line with desired levels. Employment among retailers remains unchanged and there is little sentiment for increasing the number or size of outlets. Some retailers have become more restrictive in opening new charge accounts in an attempt to cut costs. The Manufacturing Sector There was a broad increase in shipments by District manufacturers in the past month. The volume of new orders, however, was virtually unchanged, on balance, and order backlogs are substantially below the levels of a month ago. Manufacturing inventories have risen recently. Additions to stocks have been almost entirely in finished goods. Nearly half of the manufacturers surveyed still find current stocks somewhat above desired levels. Most respondents feel current plant and equipment to be appropriate to present needs, but nearly one fourth find it in excess. Nonetheless, there is virtually no sentiment for revising current expansion plans. Manufacturing employment appears to have declined slightly over the month and the average work week shrank farther. Prices received by our respondents have stabilized but prices paid continue to increase broadly. The recent stability of new orders has prevailed across most industries. No major industry reports any pervasive weakness. There are pockets of strength even in such industries as primary metals and furniture. The softest spots, judging from our survey results, are perhaps the building materials and consumer electronics groups. The weakness recently reported in retail sales of apparel has apparently not reached the manufacturing level to date. Housing and Construction There has been little change in the housing sector. Weakness continues in most parts of the District but there are indications that inventories of new and previously occupied housing units may have increased somewhat. There is little expectation now that residential construction this spring will exceed the levels of a year ago. Some Richmond directors now feel that it will be difficult to match year ago levels in their areas. Reports continue to suggest that nonresidential construction is holding up and continuing to take up some of the slack in the residential sector. The Financial Sector There are indications that business loan demand is picking up, at least in some areas. By and large, however, it remains below what would be considered normal levels. Consumer loan demand continues weak to moderate. Automobile loans have shown some scattered increases, but from severely depressed levels and remain very slow by almost any standard. There is little expectation that consumer loan demand will show significant strength in the immediate future. There is some sentiment, however, for the view that encouraging economic news, should it come, could have a disproportionate positive effect. The Outlook Manufacturers responding to our survey have become decidedly more optimistic since the last survey period. Forty percent of them now expect the level of business activity, nationally, locally, and in their respective firms to improve over the next six months. Very few expect activity to decline over that period. Retailers expect activity to be at least as good in six months as now. A majority of our directors expect wage gains to more nearly keep pace with inflation this year adding some impetus to consumer spending. The prospects for a coal strike have been depressing activity in some areas of the District. Recent developments suggesting only a very brief strike might also have positive effects in the near term.