Expectations for economic activity are gloomy in the Twelfth District. Activity in the region continues to be sluggish. Firms are being very conservative about their spending plans. Most feel that the economy is in a very vulnerable position. Although automobile sales have picked up in response to the rebate programs, concern is being expressed over the automobile industry. Housing activity continues flat because of high mortgage rates. Lack of rainfall and the fruit fly problem are major concerns to agricultural interests. Savings and Loan Associations are worried about their financial conditions and are anticipating merger activity. INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY continues flat in the Twelfth District. Most firms appear to be taking a conservative attitude with regard to capital expenditures. Inventories are being maintained at minimum levels with no apparent plans for increases in the near future. Some indicate that the economy appears to be in a very vulnerable position and are curtailing activity. High interest rates and energy costs are thought to be especially worrisome problems. The HOUSING market continues to be depressed. With mortgage rates in the 14-1/2 to 16 percent range, most people are either unwilling or unable to obtain mortgage loans. Conventional financing is almost non-existent. Despite the fact that some interest rates are dropping, mortgage rates are still rising in some areas. Little activity in residential housing is anticipated until mortgage rates drop below 13 percent. The slowing of residential real estate activity has apparently weakened the upward trend in housing prices. One respondent knowledgeable of the field reported that the national increase in housing starts is vastly misleading. It was indicated that after taking into account the distortion in housing starts because of the mild winter, it appears that activity is weakening and that the industry is at a virtual standstill in many areas. AUTOMOBILE sales have responded favorably to the rebate program being offered by the major U.S. automobile manufacturers. However, expectations for the automobile industry are gloomy. It is feared that the rebate program only changes the inter-temporal purchasing behavior of car buyers. The increased sales presently occurring will be offset by reduced sales in the coming months. The general lack of rainfall in the region may create problems for some AGRICULTURAL areas. However, most areas are reporting that no hardships are likely because of adequate reserves. The Mediterranean fruit fly problem in California has created a great deal of concern both within the state and nationwide. Currently the problem is isolated in one area but catastrophic consequences could occur if the fruit flies spread. Efforts are being taken to prevent the fly from spreading to some of the major agricultural areas of California. Texas is concerned over the fly moving interstate and placed a quarantine on all California fruit, much to the dismay of Californian agricultural interests. RETAIL SALES remain sluggish. The surge in sales that took place in December has not continued into 1981. Sales of durable goods have been especially slow. Some note an increase in the use of credit cards. But, they also note that collection problems appear to be on the rise. UNEMPLOYMENT continues to edge lower in most areas. Employment in high technology industries continues to be growing. However, employment in interest-sensitive industries remains depressed with almost no signs of rebounding. Employment in the lumber industry is off as much as 200 percent in some areas. NOW accounts continue to be the major topic of interest involving FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS. The popularity of NOW accounts varies greatly between areas and institutions. Some banks are reporting as little as 10 percent of personal demand deposits to be NOW accounts while others are reporting as much as 50 per cent. An outflow of deposits to money market mutual funds is reported by some respondents. A "leveling of the playing field" is being called for. Savings and Loan Associations are worried about the financial situation of their industry. A large number of mergers are being anticipated in hopes of creating more stable financial institutions.