Summary Economic activity in the Seventh District is unlikely to show any marked change, up or down, in the months immediately ahead. However, large gains for the second quarter will be reported for many sectors, e.g., autos and steel, in comparison with the same period of 1980 when sharp declines occurred. Some sectors report a moderation of price inflation, but there is little hope for a slowing in worker compensation. Many analysts hope for real gains in the second half, assuming that credit conditions continue to improve. In general, capital goods demand is weaker than consumer goods demand. Businesses are keeping inventories very lean. Construction activity remains severely depressed but there has been some revival in home sales. Many businesses, consumers, and state/local governments are grappling with financial problems. Farm income forecasts have been adjusted downward. Inflation Significant price reductions are reported for cement and ready-mix concrete. Prices of gypsum board and gasoline are soft. Increases for general merchandise and some components have moderated. Most auto insurance rates will not rise this year. Despite these favorable signs, purchasing agents expect average prices to rise 9-11 percent in 1981. Labor costs are not moderating overall. Further substantial increases in transportation costs and utility charges are inevitable. Chicago area mass transit fares rose by one-third at year end and a further rise of 25 percent is under consideration if state subsidies are not arranged. Labor markets Entry level jobs are probably harder to find in this region than at any time since the years before World War II. Help- wanted ads in Chicago papers are running 40 percent below last year, and volume is dominated by ads for programmers, accountants, various other skills, and commission sales people. The job situation reflects generally poor economic conditions, closings of obsolete facilities (especially in inner cities), increasing automation, and hiring cutbacks by state/local governments. Despite weak demand for workers, compensation rates continue to rise. Labor demands in current negotiations have not moderated, and attempts to renegotiate existing compensation packages are given little chance to succeed except in cases where unions are convinced that facilities will be closed if concessions are not granted. In the public sector, Milwaukee firemen recently won "parity" pay with police after a strike. The police union immediately asserted its aim to restore a differential in its favor. Consumer expenditures Major retailers report a gradual improvement in general merchandise sales in February and March. Special promotions (encouraging "cherry picking") and mild weather have helped. Credit sales are still lagging. Delinquencies and writeoffs of credit are "bad" with the new bankruptcy law a big factor. Microwave ovens are the only really strong household appliance. Airline travel is down 15 percent from the 1979 peak with advance bookings showing no improvement. Hotel occupancy rates have declined in Chicago, partly because of reduced convention business. Motor vehicles The auto rebate program was very successful. Some dealers reported that sales doubled during the period when rebates applied to the most popular models. However, sales dropped sharply on March 20 when the rebate program was sharply curtailed. Rebates did not apply to truck sales and they remained severely depressed. Sales are still expected to revive in the second quarter, helped by new models (especially GM's J-car), and pressure of pent-up demand. Floor plan rates were recently cut to 18.75 percent, down from a peak of over 22 percent, but still high enough to keep most auto dealers in financial trouble. Many dealers are said to be close to the point of deciding on liquidation. Used car prices are strong, largely reflecting the low rate of new car sales. Steel Steel demand is showing surprising strength in virtually all markets. Second quarter shipments will be well above last year. A leading district producer will be operating close to capacity. The auto industry is ordering steel in line with increased production schedules. Recent increases in "trigger" prices have caused some foreign steel producers to close their sales offices here. Capital goods Orders for business equipment remain at depressed levels in real terms, barely sufficient to keep plants operating at current reduced rates. One diversified capital goods producer, which had enjoyed surprising strength in new bookings in January, reported that February business fell back again. Rail equipment output is falling rapidly. Retail sales of heavy trucks and trailers slipped in the fourth quarter and remained at this reduced level in early 1981. Orders for heavy castings are at about 60 percent of capacity. Construction equipment demand is still very weak, but two closed plants have been reopened on a limited basis because of depleted inventories. Some leading producers will not exhibit at the materials handling show, to be held in Chicago in April, for the first time in memory. Farm equipment is mixed, but generally soft. Oil and gas development equipment is one of the few capital goods sectors reporting vigorous demand. Real estate Residential construction is not reviving, despite some pickup in transactions in existing homes. Nonresidential construction is also weak, except for the Chicago Loop area where new buildings are still leasing briskly. S&Ls are quoting mortgage rates in the 15.5 to 18 percent range, plus three points, and plus fees of $100-$300. But few regular loans are being made. Transactions frequently involve loan assumptions, contract sales, second mortgages, or some combination of features. GPMS, SAMs, and RRMs are also part of the picture. Some insurance companies are offering commercial mortgages again, often with equity participations. Agriculture Farm prices remain at lower levels than analysts in the area had anticipated. Current estimates for farm exports and farm income suggest smaller gains than had been indicated earlier. Livestock producers, particularly, have seen profit margins cut by the cost-price squeeze. Upward pressures on retail food prices have eased. High interest rates and disappointing earnings prospects have dampened capital outlays by farmers. Finance Liquidity of S&Ls has improved, but many are facing erosion of net worth and are extremely cautious in making new loans. Business loan demand from district businesses reflects the depressed state of activity here, but some large banks have increased loans rapidly by participating in syndicated loans, especially to energy companies. Financial stringency of business, especially small firms, is indicated by the fact that the number of firms delinquent in paying Illinois unemployment taxes is double the level of three years ago.