Economic activity in the Tenth District appears to be relatively sluggish. Retail sales are down slightly from a year ago, although auto sales remain comparable to sales a year earlier. Prices remain generally stable, at retail and for manufacturers' inputs. Housing starts are also off from a year ago, though sales of new homes are generally up. Future mortgage demand is expected to be stronger, as rates are expected to decline further. Agricultural lenders and borrowers in the district are both facing continuing difficulties. A good winter wheat harvest is well under way in Tenth District states. Bank loan demand is flat while deposits are generally higher. Retail trade Most retailers report that sales are down slightly from year-ago levels. Clothing, home furnishings, appliances, and electronic items are all selling more slowly. As a result, some retailers are trimming their inventories. Most retailers expect sales to pick up before yearend, however, and plan no major cutbacks in inventories. Retail prices remained stable during the past three months and are expected to remain stable in the near future. Automobile dealers Automobile dealers report that sales are comparable with year-ago levels. Sales are being spurred by manufacturers' low financing rates and, to a less extent, by recent declines in other interest rates. Inventory levels are largely satisfactory, and caution rules out inventory building in the near future. Most dealers, however, are optimistic that 1985 sales will be as good or slightly better than strong 1984 sales. Purchasing agents Purchasing agents report that input prices remained constant during the past three months. Most expect constant input prices through the end of the year. No difficulties in obtaining materials are reported, and none are anticipated. Satisfaction with current materials inventories is mixed. Most agents report some trimming of inventories due to seasonal and firm-specific factors. Housing activity and finance Homebuilders report that housing starts are down slightly to sharply from a year ago. Starts are expected to remain steady or increase slightly through the end of the year. Building materials are readily available, and materials prices are stable or rising slowly. Sales of new homes are generally up, as are new home prices. Savings and loans report that mortgage demand and commitments are up except in Colorado and Wyoming. Future mortgage demand is expected to be strong, since mortgage rates have declined recently and are expected to decline further. Savings and loans report larger savings inflows than a year ago but expect inflows to slow in the near future. Agriculture Agricultural lenders throughout the Tenth District are continuing to write down the value of farm assets, both because examiners are pressing banks to keep up with declining asset values, and for closer monitoring of loans. Some lenders in Missouri and Oklahoma report that their banks have already written farm asset values down to market levels. Aggressive writing down of asset values may cause these banks to reconsider the creditworthiness of some borrowers. Agencies of the farm credit system, Production Credit Associations (PCAs) and Federal Land Bank Associations (FLBAs), appear to be writing down farm asset values as well. Bankers in Nebraska and Colorado report that some farm credit system borrowers are looking for new lenders due in part to rising interest rates on farm credit loans, and to perceived risk associated with capital stock in the PCA's and FLBA's. Nebraska and Colorado have been especially hard hit by agricultural bank closings this year. In both states, farm borrowers at closed banks are having difficulty finding alternative sources of credit. Agricultural lenders in these states report that successor banks have applied higher credit standards, and other banks generally are not picking up customers of failed banks. As many as half of these customers may be unable to find new sources of credit. The wheat crop in the Tenth District is expected to be very good. Until interrupted by recent rains, the harvest in Oklahoma and southern Kansas was running a week to ten days ahead of schedule, and is 95 percent complete in southwest Oklahoma. Spring planting of corn, soybeans, and sorghum in the Tenth District is generally on schedule, and in some cases well ahead of the usual date. Successful spring planting has produced optimism about crop production prospects for the 1985 season, with crop conditions overall reported as good to excellent. Banking Tenth District banks report total loan demand was constant during the last month. Commercial and industrial loans were steady, but consumer loan demand grew somewhat. Residential and commercial real estate lending were stable, although the strength of real estate loan demand varied widely by locality. Several bankers note that the level of agricultural lending remains low and that loan quality problems persist. All surveyed banks reduced their prime rate during the last month, but only half lowered consumer loan rates. Total deposits were generally higher with widespread growth in demand deposits, Super NOWs, and MMDAs. Although inflows subsided after the April 15 tax deadline, IRA and Keogh accounts still rose slightly over the month.