Mixed signals have recently been received from key indicators of the Ninth District economy. While labor market conditions have continued to improve generally, most of the improvement has been seasonal. Some slackening of the pace of consumer spending has been noted throughout the district, although car sales and housing activity rose in some parts. The wood products sector is the only resource- related industry reporting good news, while bad news is still the norm for agriculture. Employment Labor market conditions have continued to show improvement, although most improvement has been seasonal. The Ninth District's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate fell a bit in April to just under 6 percent, despite a slight drop in seasonally adjusted employment. Also, the increase in April employment was less than normal in the Minneapolis-St. Paul metro area. But April's unemployment rate in the Twin Cities dropped a little more than seasonally to only 4.2 percent, and teenage unemployment there, at around 10 percent, is about as low as in any metro area in the nation. Normal seasonal employment increases were noted in South Dakota, dropping the state's unemployment rate to 5.1 percent and the Sioux Falls MSA's rate to 4.4 percent. This April's unemployment rate in North Dakota remained unchanged from last April's, at 6.4 percent. A Bank director notes that North Dakota's stagnation was primarily in the state's western part, which has been adversely affected by a curtailment of energy production projects. Bank directors report that Montana has been suffering from deteriorating conditions in its agricultural and resource-related sectors; the state's unemployment fell between March and April at less than the seasonal norm. Consumer Spending Some softening in the district's consumer purchases of general merchandise was noted in May and early June. One large retailer, noting that its April sales were better than expected, speculated that some of its normal May business may have instead come in April this year. By May's end, the retailer's year-to-date sales were up 10 percent over last year's. Another large retailer found that large discounts were the only way to keep business brisk in May, curbing store profits. Furthermore, this retailer's inventories are still high and will have to be brought back in line by more discounts. Recreational clothing, particularly jogging togs, has been an excellent seller thanks to the unusually warm weather in the district's population centers. Bank directors concur that retail sales are generally flat-to-slowing throughout the district, with the possible exception of eastern South Dakota. Low-cost financing deals have propped up car sales into June. Two large domestic manufacturers have been left with low current inventories of trucks and cars. Both manufacturers have experienced year-to-date vehicle sales-especially truck sales-in excess of last year's good results. Sales were off in Montana, though, and also slowed in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. Aided by falling interest rates, housing activity generally has grown. Sales of Minneapolis homes are up a whopping 31 percent this April, compared with last April. A major home builder association reports that its members had a record number of homes in the planning and building stages. Apartment construction has also taken off in the Twin Cities metro area, due to a combination of low interest and vacancy rates as well as to attempts to beat the possible enactment of federal tax laws unfavorable to real estate investment. Early reports from tourist centers indicate that the pace of tourist spending, an important contributor to the district's economy in summer, is above last year's level in several spots in Minnesota. But tourist spending in North Dakota and Montana has been slowed by the strong U.S. dollar, which has kept Canadian visitors away. Resource-Related Industries District Bank directors report mixed conditions across several key resource sectors. Imports, input substitution, and scrap iron processing have all hurt the iron ore business in northeastern Minnesota. As a result, extended shutdowns in ore processing later this summer have been announced. Oil and gas exploration is way down in North Dakota and Montana, with the recent cut in British oil prices boding ill for future exploration in these states. Indicative of this, a Bank director notes that only 30 rigs were operating in North Dakota last month, compared with 70 in operation a year earlier. In contrast, high demand for housing and paper is spurring the wood products sector. A Bank director reports that a new wood- products plant is opening in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Agriculture Bad news continues to crop up in the district's agriculture sector. Farm prices continue to fall: The Minnesota farm price index was down 14 percent in mid-May from its level a year earlier. Crop prices declined even more precipitously than livestock prices did. In Minnesota, the average price for all milk was the lowest in almost five years. While warm, wet weather has aided crop development in Minnesota and North Dakota, crop development in western South Dakota and Montana has been hurt by a lack of moisture.