Most District economic indicators have declined recently. Retailers, however, reported single-digit sales increases in May over year-ago levels. District employment declined slightly in April, though the unemployment rate remained unchanged. Both residential and nonresidential construction contracts declined from the year-ago level in April. District respondents expect very little change in business conditions over the next three months. Total loan growth at large District banks has slowed from last year's pace. Only consumer loan growth has outpaced the year-ago growth rate. In the agricultural sector, the prospect of large harvests has lowered futures prices for most major crops to new life-of-contract lows. Outlook A majority of District respondents surveyed early in the second quarter expects business conditions to be about the same through September of this year. Half of those surveyed expect the real volume of business to increase slightly, while one fourth of respondents expect no change. Prices near current levels over the next three months are planned by about 60 percent of respondents, while almost 20 percent plan to raise prices and only 2 percent expect to lower prices. Survey respondents also indicate that no work force changes are planned in the near future. Most respondents are comfortable with current inventory levels and plan no change in those levels in the next three to six months. Consumer Spending All indications suggest that retail sales in the District have been fairly good, a condition unchanged since the last report. Some District department and discount stores reported sales gains of 5 to 10 percent in May over last year's level. Employment Eighth District payroll employment declined at a 3 percent annualized rate in April, bringing the year-to-date rate of growth to just over 1 percent. The District unemployment rate remained unchanged in April at 7.5 percent despite the small decline in employment. The unemployment rate declined slightly in Arkansas and Kentucky while Missouri's unemployment rate remained unchanged and Tennessee experienced a small increase. Business Activity Business activity in April, as measured by an index of seven indicators, rose sharply in Missouri at an 11 percent rate. Arkansas business activity also increased in April, but only at a 1 percent rate. The business activity index was 1.5 percent above the year-ago level in both states in April. Construction Total construction contracts in April declined 14 percent from the April 1984 figure. Both residential and nonresidential construction contracts fell from their year-ago levels, at 18 and 7 percent rates, respectively. Reports from the District suggest, however, that interest in new homes and home improvements has increased recently. Banking and Finance The most recent bank data indicate a continuation of lending trends that have been evident since the beginning of this year. Total loans at large weekly-reporting District banks grew at a 12 percent annualized rate (not seasonally adjusted) over the three month period ending in May. This is considerably slower than the 24 percent rate of loan growth for the same period of the previous year. Slower growth in both commercial and real estate lending were the most important factors contributing to the slower overall loan growth. Commercial loans grew at a 10 percent pace this year compared to a 15 percent rate last year while real estate loans grew at only a 5 percent rate as compared to a 17 percent rate over the three month period last year. Consistent with recent experience, consumer lending has grown more rapidly over the past 3 months of this year (33 percent) than for the same period last year (12 percent). Over the last three months, however, the month to month growth rates have been declining, suggesting a slowing in consumer borrowing. Agriculture Early planting and timely rains have lowered futures prices for most major crops to new lows. With export demand weak, it appears as if grain, soybean, and cotton prices will stay near current levels unless yields are below average. Cattle supplies remain abundant with producers still attempting to market a large number of overfinished animals. Hog prices have increased somewhat recently, partially in response to widening restrictions on the importation of hogs from Canada.