Two distinct pictures emerge from the District economy at this time. Most areas and sectors are offering very upbeat reports. Activity is generally rising, and in many cases, from already record or near record levels. Such reports come from the retail sector, the construction and housing sectors, and the service sector. On the other hand, the manufacturing and agricultural sectors are giving off very negative signals. The manufacturing sector, in particular, is reporting declining sales, production, and employment. Manufacturers continue to cite foreign competition as a major factor in the current situation, and quite a few are apparently relying more heavily on offshore production themselves, either by moving production facilities or by importing parts or materials. In agriculture, recent rain has ameliorated difficulties in some areas, but crop outlooks remain less than satisfactory. Manufacturing Once again, as earlier in the year, manufacturing activity has slowed. Other respondents report declines in shipments, new orders, and order backlogs during the past several weeks. In addition, manufacturing employment has fallen in most areas, and several industries are generally on reduced workweeks. Most indications are that while these conditions may be concentrated in the textile, apparel, and furniture industries, they are by no means peculiar to those segments of manufacturing. There appear to be very few, if any, industry groups actually showing growth at this time, although several related to commercial and residential construction activity remain above year earlier levels of activity. Coal production remains slightly below the record levels of last year, but is still quite strong. Mining employment, on the other hand, is not holding up so well. During April coal mining employment in West Virginia was more than 5 percent below the year earlier level. Consumer Activity Consumer activity in the District appears quite different from manufacturing. Sales are strong and rising very nearly across the board. Non-durables, durables, automobiles, and services are all doing well in most areas. Despite the general perception of strong sales, automobile dealers are aggressively promoting attractive financing arrangements. Tourism is also an area of strength, although some areas report slight declines from the extraordinary levels of activity a year ago. Tourist activity, in fact, is prompting quite a bit of development activity in several tourist oriented areas of the District. Housing and Construction Construction activity in the District remains almost uniformly strong, with both residential and commercial building contributing heavily. Also, there is little indication that any slowing of activity is in prospect. Most industry observers and participants expect continued buoyancy in construction activity and adequate absorption of new space. Housing sales are generally robust, and are even reported to be breaking records in some areas. There are even pockets of strength in industrial type building, particularly around industrial and office parks where new facilities make up most or all of the activity. Financial Sector District financial institutions are still reporting moderate to strong growth in loan demand. Business loan demand is rated as flat to up slightly, since although business needs are expanding, businesses are perceived as having quite a bit of cash on hand. Consumer demand for credit is generally strong, and mortgage credit, of course, reflects the strength of the residential real estate market. The financial institutions seen able to continue financing this loan growth, since deposit growth is also holding up very well. The Outlook The outlook around the District reflects the state of business activity. Manufacturers, as a group, do not expect to see any improvement in business activity over the next six months or so, although few envision any further actual deterioration of the economy. In most other sectors the outlook is much more positive. Clearly, there is some uncertainty stemming from the debate on taxes, but there appears to be general agreement that business investment will continue on a strong upward path for at least the rest of the year. Plans for construction activity and purchases of producers' goods are largely in place, and there does not seem to be any general tendency to cancel or otherwise reduce planned investment. Consumer confidence remains strong, as job and income growth continue despite the lull in manufacturing activity.