Summary Observers of economic developments in the Seventh District generally view the current situation and outlook with caution. No recession is anticipated, but neither does an upturn appear in prospect from the sluggish overall trend, and weakening manufacturing sector, of recent months. Construction or office buildings and stores, rehabilitation of older structures, and highway and bridge work continue vigorous. Residential sales and building are rising in response to lower mortgage interest rates. Auto and truck sales are at high levels, and a large rise in auto output over last year is planned for the third quarter. Major home appliance sales are at record levels, but the recent rise is centered in microwave ovens, many imported. Other areas of consumer spending for goods have flattened or declined. Consumer debt levels are high, and delinquencies are up significantly for some lenders. Manufacturing jobs in the Seventh District have declined since January, adjusted for seasonal patterns. Employers trying to force down labor costs in air transport, auto production, trucking, and food retailing have been met with work stoppages and costly litigation. Most District capital goods producers have experienced only limited recovery, at best, from reduced operating rates of 1982. Some lines, including heavy construction equipment, railcars, and farm machinery, have remained at very low levels, with numerous plant closings. Steel orders are rising, chiefly due to auto industry buying, but demand and pricing remain short of satisfactory levels, and vigorous cost cutting continues. The recent weakening in personal computers and semiconductors has had relatively little impact in this region. Continued declines in agricultural commodity prices have added to strains on farmers, suppliers, and rural communities. Strains on farm lenders apparently have also intensified. Business executives are studying and commenting on the Administration's tax reform plan, with mixed reactions. Tax Plan Reduction Most District executives recognize the merits of the Administration's goal of simplifying the federal income tax system and reducing marginal rates. However, equipment producers strongly oppose elimination of the investment tax credit, and many are concerned about the effect on future cash flow of tighter depreciation rules and "recapture" of so-called windfalls from past accelerated depreciation. Builders decry the proposal to end tax credits on renovations of older commercial structures, which have been accounting for a substantial share of current construction activity. There is also concern over the proposed requirement that equipment and buildings must be in service on January 1, 1986, to qualify for existing incentives. However, many believe that the abrupt cutoff will be modified to permit a more gradual transition. Home builders will strongly oppose elimination of deductibility on personal returns of state and local taxes and interest on second homes. Attitudes of state and local governments on deductibility of taxes are mixed. In Illinois, there is sentiment that existing rules comprise a subsidy to other states with heavier taxes. Despite these apprehensions, the proposed tax legislation does not play a large role in projections of demand or profits for the remainder of 1985. Import Competition Heavy import competition, attributable largely to the strong dollar and lower labor costs abroad, is gradually squeezing down manufacturing activity in the District in a broad variety of industries. It is widely believed that the growth of imports is understated because of lags in "documentation" at ports of entry. Meanwhile, more and more operations are being shifted abroad, to Europe, Latin America (especially Mexico), and the Far East. Examples include electrical apparatus, auto parts, household appliances, and farm and construction equipment. Pressures to seek lower costs abroad are so strong that changes in tax laws, or even significant weakening of the dollar, are unlikely to arrest the trend. Capital Goods Seventh District capital equipment producers continue to be battered by the strong dollar. A more sluggish domestic economy apparently also has cut growth of capital spending plans and reduced orders. Demand is generally weak for various types of heavy capital equipment. Railcar orders are down from very low levels last year. Motor Vehicles Sales of cars and trucks continued strong through May, helped by cut-rate financing, dealer incentive programs, and easing of shortages. However, inventories of some models are still tight. Planned third quarter auto production would be highest for the quarter since 1977, and 16 percent above year ago. Truck sales in May were highest ever for the month. Sales of medium and heavy trucks are expected to rise 3-5 percent in 1985, with only small gains in the second half. Truck trailer orders and shipments have fallen substantially, following the surge in production of larger and tandem trailers last year in response to changed Federal regulations. A small Midwestern auto producer has given notice that it plans to end car production in the U.S. unless labor agrees to sizable concessions. Steel Steel production at Chicago area mills has declined somewhat since spring, but output has increased in the Detroit area. Third quarter bookings indicate a smaller than seasonal decline in output, mainly because of auto industry needs. Construction fabricators' backlogs are rising, especially for bridges and commercial buildings. Demand for steel remains very weak for heavy industrial projects, oil and gas, and farm and construction equipment. With continued losses, steel companies are still drastically cutting costs, eliminating marginal facilities and workers and contracting out additional functions. Construction Office and retail construction, renovation, and highway work continue vigorous in the Chicago area. The market for large blocks of office space in and near the Loop is tight, but a substantial amount of space is available in smaller blocks. A large volume of new space will hit the market in Chicago next year and may cause a serious glut. A record volume of highway contracts will be let by the State of Illinois in June. No shortages of materials are anticipated. Mortgage Rates Lower interest rates are boosting housing sales and construction. Residential building has strengthened, with midrise suburban rental apartments up strongly, perhaps in part to "grandfather" current tax treatment. Home resales have also improved. Fixed-rate 30-year mortgages are being quoted by Chicago area lenders at contract rates as low as 11.5 percent. First-year rates on adjustable rate loans are quoted by numerous lenders at rates under 10 percent, with some being offered at 9 percent or less. Lower rates are encouraging a shift toward fixed-rate loans. Consumer Spending Major chain stores in the Seventh District report weaker sales growth in recent months, for both durables and nondurables. Distribution of delayed tax refunds did not discernibly boost spending, according to a large retailer. Consumer buying on credit has been heavy, and delinquencies have been rising. With inventories somewhat heavy, retailers have been scaling back orders. Total shipments of major home appliances have been at an all-time high. Agriculture Low commodity prices continue to plague District corn and soybean farmers. Average farm commodity prices fell further in May, to 11 percent below a year earlier and lowest for the month since 1980. Unexpected weakness in livestock prices has paced the decline in recent months. Hog prices are down 14 percent from a year ago, in part reflecting large increases in competing supplies of poultry and escalating imports from Canada. Crop plantings progressed well ahead of normal. Early plantings usually enhance yield prospects. Without a large rise in crop exports, not now anticipated, a big harvest would add to stocks and hold prices at support levels. Recent developments are reportedly adding to the pressure on the cooperative Farm Credit System. Stock requirements of several PCAs in Iowa were frozen. In addition, the Omaha FLB raised its farm mortgage rates 75 basis points. These developments reportedly triggered a "flight" of good borrowers from PCAs and FLBs to other lenders. In some cases, the flight has been encouraged by heavy advertising of lower rate loans on the part of competitive lenders.