Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to expand at a moderate pace   during the reporting period of late February through the end of March. Despite   higher energy prices, overall price pressures for final goods and services   remained modest, as did wage gains. Sales of retail items and demand for   business and consumer services rose further. District manufacturing activity   increased on net. Demand was robust for agricultural producers but remained   uneven for providers of energy resources. Activity in District housing markets   strengthened modestly but remained lackluster on balance, and demand for   nonresidential real estate was largely unchanged. Contacts from financial   institutions reported small increases in overall loan demand and slight   improvements in credit quality and availability.
Upward wage pressures were quite modest overall, held down by high levels of   unemployment and limited demand for new workers. However, wage gains remained   pronounced for highly skilled workers in information technology fields, and   significant gains were also reported for experienced workers in some segments of   manufacturing. The reports suggested that wage gains are likely to remain   limited going forward, as most contacts plan to engage in only modest hiring for   the foreseeable future.
Demand for business and consumer services strengthened further on balance.   Sales continued to expand at a moderate pace for providers of technology   services, and contacts anticipate growth will pick up in the second half of the   year. Demand has improved in the radio and television broadcasting industries.   By contrast, demand for professional services was largely flat, as was demand   for health-care services. Sales activity was reported to be up somewhat for   restaurants and other food-service providers. Activity in the District's travel   and tourism industry picked up further, with contacts in Hawaii and Southern   California noting ongoing gains in visitor volumes and hotel occupancy rates.

