Reports from Sixth District business contacts indicated that the pace of   economic activity expanded at a moderate pace in late February through March.   Expectations remained generally positive across most sectors, although contacts   expressed concern regarding the impact of higher energy prices on the outlook.
Retailers mostly indicated sales were growing at a modest pace and auto sales   remained strong. Leisure and hospitality businesses reported robust activity in   all segments except cruise lines. Homebuilders and brokers experienced   improvements in sales of new and existing homes while multifamily construction   remained strong. General contractors noted slow improvements in commercial   construction conditions. Manufacturers and transportation contacts reported   positive production trends, on balance. Loan demand remained relatively weak   according to community bank contacts. The share of firms reporting they were   hiring continued to increase, although many contacts continued to express a   preference for part-time or temporary contract workers. Most contacts continued   to report having relatively little pricing power. However, the proportion of   firms saying they were successful in their attempts to pass on price increases   rose since the last report.
Tourism activity remained strong and contacts were optimistic about the   outlook for leisure and hospitality spending in the summer. Occupancy rates were   up in many areas and South Florida continued to be boosted by visitors from   South America and Canada. Convention activity continued to improve as well.   Similar to retail, tourism contacts expressed concern about higher fuel costs   and the potential impact on domestic travel to many regional tourist   destinations. There continued to be a modest drop off in bookings on some cruise   lines, which was attributed mostly to the recent disaster off the coast of   Italy.
The majority of homebuilder contacts reported that new home sales and   construction rose modestly during late February and March compared with a year   earlier. Similar to brokers, builders also noted that home price declines abated   somewhat and new home inventories continued to decline on a year-over-year   basis. Contacts observed that multifamily construction remained robust across   much of the District and new projects continued to be announced. Over the next   several months, homebuilders anticipate sales and construction to be flat to   slightly up compared with a year ago.
Most commercial real estate contacts indicated that conditions continued to   improve slowly in the region. Contractors noted a slight improvement in demand,   but the market remained very competitive and overall activity remained at low   levels. Commercial real estate brokers continued to report modest improvements   in demand, mostly for class A space in urban markets. Some reported that   businesses have become more willing to move ahead with lease plans. Rent   concessions continued to be noted with several brokers reporting that rates have   begun to stabilize; however, longer leases were reported which included generous   tenant improvements. The outlook among contacts was a bit more positive than   previously reported, but most contractors and commercial real estate brokers   continued to anticipate that activity would improve slowly this year.
Transportation contacts continued to report volume growth across most   segments with the exception of air cargo, which is being hindered by slowing   global demand and rising fuel costs. A railroad contact noted significant volume   increases in automobiles, steel, and forestry products. Domestic coal shipments   slowed because of the effects of warmer weather and lower natural gas prices. A   port contact indicated strong container volumes and increases in steel imports.   The majority of transportation contacts reported substantial investment spending   in anticipation of future demand.
Though most contacts continued to report having little pricing power, more   firms recounted successful attempts or plans to pass on price increases since   the last report. Increased transportation costs, including those resulting from   higher gasoline and other fuel prices, were reportedly passed on to consumers   without much difficulty. According to the firms surveyed in the Atlanta Fed's   March Business Inflation Expectations survey, unit costs were expected to rise   two percent for the year ahead, up slightly from February. According to the   businesses surveyed, profit margins, though still below normal, have begun to   improve. Firms expect modest improvement in margins over the next year.

