Growth in the Second District's economy has picked up somewhat since the last   report. Labor market conditions have been stable to slightly stronger in recent   weeks, and a sizable number of contacts say they plan to add workers in the   months ahead. While consumer prices generally remain steady, business contacts   in a number of industries indicate rising cost pressures. Manufacturers report   steady improvement in business conditions. Most retailers and auto dealers   describe sales as steady but strong in February and the first few weeks of   March. Tourism activity has been mixed but generally strong since the last   report, with bookings for the months ahead described as robust. Home sales   activity has continued to strengthen since the last report, though prices have   been steady to somewhat lower; rental markets have continued to improve, and   there has been a pickup in rental multi-family construction. Commercial real   estate markets remained steady in the first quarter of 2012. Finally, bankers   report increased loan demand, no change in credit standards, and the most   widespread declines in delinquency rates in a number of years.
Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales activity picked up in   February and has remained strong in the first few weeks of March. Sales of new   vehicles were up 4-7 percent from a year earlier in February and remained fairly   strong in March. Inventory stock-outs are no longer a factor holding down sales.   Business generally remains brisk at dealer service departments, although dealers   in the Buffalo area report that unseasonably mild weather has reduced demand for   winter-oriented service. Wholesale and retail credit conditions remain   favorable.
The Conference Board's latest survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic   states (NY, NJ, PA) shows confidence slipping moderately in March, though it   remains well above its lows of last October. Tourism activity has been fairly   robust since the last report, and hotel bookings for upcoming months look strong   as well. Albany area hotels report rising occupancy rates in February. New York   City hotels report that total revenues per room were up roughly 6 percent from a   year ago in February and March, with particular strength in the last couple of   weeks. All of the increase reflects higher occupancy rates, as room rates have   leveled off. Moreover, an industry contact notes that advance bookings are very   strong and that room rates are poised to rise. Attendance at Broadway theaters   was fairly robust in February but has tapered off in March, largely because   fewer shows are running than at this time last year; however, revenues continue   to run ahead of 2011 levels, reflecting a substantial rise in ticket prices.
Commercial real estate markets have been mixed but, on balance, steady since   the last report. Office vacancy rates in New York City and on Long Island   declined in the first quarter, while rents have risen moderately. By contrast,   office markets have slackened in northern New Jersey, Westchester and Fairfield   counties, and in Rochester. Most other metro areas in upstate New York have seen   steady to slightly declining vacancy rates. Industrial markets across the   District have been fairly stable.
Looking at business conditions more generally, manufacturers across New York   State report continued improvement since the last report, while a growing   proportion of non-manufacturing contacts report increases in business activity.   Business contacts in both manufacturing and other sectors report that input   costs are rising; however, selling prices are reported to be holding steady, on   balance.

