The economy in the Fourth District grew at a modest pace since our last report.   Manufacturers reported a small increase in production, while activity in   residential and nonresidential construction picked up slightly. Many retailers   and auto dealers characterized February sales as good. Energy production was   stable except for shale gas, where activity expanded. Freight transport volume   trended higher at a moderate rate. And the demand for business and consumer   credit improved slightly.
Hiring remains at a low level and was mainly limited to the manufacturing and   freight transport sectors. Staffing-firm representatives reported that the   number of job openings has increased, especially for information technology and   healthcare workers. Wage pressures are largely contained. Prices were largely   stable apart from increases in petroleum-based products, metals, and some   building materials.
Capacity utilization has returned to normal rates for the majority of our   contacts, while inventories were consistent with demand. Capital budgets remain   on track, with many manufacturers reporting that they plan to increase outlays   during the next several months. Input- cost changes were mainly limited to   rising prices for petroleum-based products and metals. Only a few producers said   that they are considering raising product prices during the second quarter.   Manufacturers continued to hire, but at a modest pace. We heard reports about   difficulties recruiting professional and high-skilled production workers. Wage   pressures are contained. Several contacts said that they need to allocate   additional monies for pension plans due to low rates of return.
Activity in nonresidential construction for small to medium-size contractors   continues to strengthen and is at a higher level than a year ago. Inquiries were   up substantially for most of our contacts, although backlogs, while growing, are   not as strong as builders would like. Financing projects remains one of the   biggest challenges facing contractors. Construction activity is broad-based,   driven by student housing, senior housing, healthcare, office, and   manufacturing. Our contacts expect that business will slowly improve as the year   progresses, but it will remain below pre-2008 levels. Looking at   building-materials prices, residential and nonresidential contractors reported   increases for petroleum-based products, drywall, and lumber. Hiring by   nonresidential general contractors was limited. Several commented that they need   to see more robust growth before expanding their payrolls.
Auto dealers described new-vehicle sales during February as good. Sales   received a boost from the unusually warm weather. We heard one report of a shale   gas producer purchasing 75 vehicles from a dealer. On a year-over-year basis,   sales were mainly higher. However, some dealers reported seeing a lull in   activity, which they attributed to a significant pick up in vehicle leasing at   the beginning of 2011. Inventories are light on the domestic side, but foreign   nameplates are rebuilding stocks rapidly, as those manufacturers are trying to   recapture market share. The outlook for the remainder of this year was mixed.   Half of our contacts expect the rise in 2011 sales will be repeated, while   others believe that the rate of increase seen last year is unsustainable.   Purchases of used vehicles were fairly strong. On the financing side, interest   rates are competitive, but it remains difficult to arrange financing for   customers with low credit scores. Auto dealers are hiring at a very slow rate.

