Business conditions have improved in the Fifth District economy since our last   report. Manufacturing activity continued to advance, although somewhat more   slowly than at the beginning of the year. While trade activity increased,   imports improved somewhat more slowly than exports. Retail sales activity rose   sharply, as shopper traffic increased and big-ticket sales strengthened.   Services-providing firms also recorded solid revenue growth in recent weeks, and   unseasonably warm weather bolstered tourism. Bankers reported modest gains in   most types of lending; however, other than refinancing, the amount of mortgage   lending remained relatively weak. Nonetheless, Realtors noted an increase in   sales of existing homes, and contractors reported an uptick in new home   construction. Commercial real estate activity also improved moderately across   most segments of the market, although contractors reported fewer   government-related new construction projects. Hiring activity picked up,   especially for temporary workers. Finally, the pace of price increases rose   marginally over the last month, according to our latest manufacturing and   service sector surveys.
Port activity in the District continued to strengthen since the end of last   year, with exports slightly outperforming imports. Several port authorities   reported that roll-on, roll-off stock was up. Indeed, several officials noted   that autos and automotive parts were key products boosting both imports and   exports. Exports of bulk goods, including coal, wood by-products, and   agricultural goods, continued to be robust. An executive at a large container   carrier noted that downward pressure on shipping rates persisted due to excess   capacity. Rising fuel costs were cited as causing serious problems for both land   and ocean shippers. However, most port contacts expected that exports and   imports would continue to strengthen.
Commercial real estate leasing and construction activity improved across most   segments of the market since the beginning of the year. Several commercial   Realtors reported solid increases in inquiries about availability of office and   retail space, but only moderate growth in leasing of those properties. Still,   leasing rates were firming, according to agents, due to the reduction in the   number of attractive properties still on the market. Most contractors cited   moderate increases in private sector construction projects. Unusually warm   weather helped contractors finish projects ahead of schedule, but some   contractors with weak backlogs sought to spread out work in order to keep their   workforce active. In contrast, government sector projects declined dramatically,   according to several contractors, although one builder noted an increase in   demand for secondary education facilities. Both contractors and Realtors   reported that access to financing continued to be limited, and the required   paperwork was inhibiting completion of loans on a timely basis. Prices of   construction-related goods, especially petroleum-based products, cement and   drywall increased in recent months, according to contacts, with most having only   minimal success passing through any cost increases.

