The economy of the Eighth District continued to grow at a modest pace since our   previous survey. Residential real estate market conditions have improved   moderately. Similarly, commercial real estate market conditions also have   improved. However, recent reports of plans from firms in the manufacturing and   services sectors were more mixed. Overall lending at a sample of small and   medium-sized District banks was essentially unchanged during the three-month   period from mid-December to mid-March.
Reports of planned activity in the District's services sector also have been   mixed since our previous survey. Firms in hotel, business support, distribution,   and natural gas distribution services announced plans to expand operations and   hire new workers. In contrast, contacts in health care, distribution, freight   transportation, casino, and storage services announced plans to close facilities   and lay off workers. General retail contacts have reported strong sales for the   first two months of the year, and they expect positive sales growth to continue   through 2012. District auto dealers have reported strong demand in the luxury   automobile market while truck sales have been down.
Commercial and industrial real estate conditions improved moderately   throughout most of the District. Contacts in northeast Arkansas continued to   report strong commercial real estate activity in the Jonesboro area. A contact   in Little Rock noted stronger commercial real estate activity for office and   retail space than last year. Contacts in the Louisville metropolitan area   reported improvement in office real estate activity and expect increases in the   demand for industrial space. However, a contact in central Kentucky noted that   commercial real estate activity is very soft. Commercial and industrial   construction activity showed modest improvement in several parts of the   District. A contact in Little Rock reported that new construction activity has   improved because of the mild winter weather, but it is still at weak levels.   Contacts in central Arkansas reported increased bidding in commercial   construction projects, while a contact in western Kentucky noted large   commercial and industrial construction projects to be completed in Owensboro.
