Overall, business activity in the Third District has continued to show slow,   steady improvement since the previous Beige Book. Overall sentiment improved,   and the unseasonably mild weather undoubtedly contributed to this. Since the   last Beige Book, manufacturing activity has grown further, and many   manufacturing industries have contributed to this growth; however, the pace has   slowed slightly. Retail sales continued to grow modestly. Motor vehicle dealers   experienced unseasonably strong sales growth in February, but sales were less   robust in March. Third District banks have reported slight growth in demand and   continued strong credit quality since the last Beige Book. New home construction   continued to improve in Pennsylvania but slowed in New Jersey due to the large   inventory of distressed homes. Little change was seen by commercial real estate   contacts who reported slowly improving markets. Overall, service-sector firms   reported continued growth. Price pressures have remained contained for most   sectors, with little change from the last Beige Book.
The outlook remains relatively optimistic among most firms, similar to the   sentiment expressed in the last Beige Book. Manufacturers' expectations for the   next six months have changed little and remain relatively high. Retailers   continue to expect slow, steady improvement. Auto dealers anticipate continued   strong sales; however, they acknowledge that the robust first quarter might   shave a little off the typical spring seasonal surge. Banking, real estate, and   service-sector firms continue to plan for slow growth in 2012. In general,   business plans remained cautious; however, there was a noticeable lack of the   litany of risks and uncertainties as expressed by contacts over the last six   months.
About nine out of 10 Third District manufacturers expect business conditions   to improve or stay the same during the next six months; firms are evenly   divided. Seasonal trends may be responsible for some of the anticipated   improvement, but the optimism is nearly uniform across all major sectors. The   usual litany of risks and uncertainties to the outlook – typical over the past   six months – was virtually absent from current comments by manufacturers.   However, caution remains; expectations of capital spending and future hiring   have changed little since the last Beige Book.
Auto sales were robust in February for dealers in New Jersey and   Pennsylvania. For the first two months of the year, year-over-year sales growth   in New Jersey was reported to be higher than national growth despite a soft   January report. Pennsylvania contacts indicated that March sales were strong but   not as robust as in February. The outlook for auto sales remains strong.   However, contacts indicate that the rapid first quarter pace may somewhat dampen   the spring sales season, which typically peaks in May or June. Modest hiring   continues at select dealers, but caution remains the trend.
Nonresidential real estate activity has continued to slowly improve since the   last Beige Book, with few changes. The industrial real estate market remains the   strongest, followed by higher education, multifamily residential investment, and   activities related to Marcellus shale. Philadelphia's Center City office market   is characterized by a continuing trend toward consolidations and a growing trend   toward conversions to apartments. The overall outlook for nonresidential real   estate remains positive but modest.
