Economic activity continues to expand at a moderate pace in the First District.   Most contacted retailers, manufacturers, and consulting and advertising firms   report higher revenues in recent months than a year earlier. Commercial real   estate markets are mostly unchanged, while residential contacts across the   region cite rising sales and declining prices. Except for a consulting firm   unable to meet very strong demand growth without aggressive hiring, responding   firms are hiring modestly or not at all; a few mentioned small layoffs.   Retailers express concern about what rising energy costs may do to consumers'   willingness to spend, while manufacturing contacts acknowledge the increasing   costs, but say they are not a problem.
The travel and tourism sector in the First District continues to expect a   strong 2012, based on 5.6 percent annual growth in 2011, a strong start to 2012,   and analyst forecasts predicting high single-digit to low double-digit increases   over 2011. In January and February, hotel revenues were up nearly 10 percent,   reflecting improved occupancy rates. Higher hotel occupancy has positive   spillover effects for restaurants, retail, and entertainment venues. Business   travel is driving this increase, as leisure travel is still subject to some   consumer caution. Echoing the retail contacts, tourism contacts say higher gas   prices could retard growth in leisure travel, but aggressive price discounting   might provide a counterweight.
All of our contacts report that input costs and, in particular, energy costs   are up. However, none says rising costs are a problem and all in this round say   energy has little noticeable effect on their costs or revenues. In general,   respondents indicate they are hiring to keep up with demand. Two firms undertook   relatively small layoffs; one did so because of weaker sales in the fourth   quarter of 2012 and the other is offsetting layoffs at one New England plant   with increases elsewhere in the region. Firms continue to report difficulty   finding qualified workers, especially in skilled manufacturing trades and   engineering. One contact, an electrical equipment manufacturer, is trying to   re-orient recruiting to hire young engineers, for example, and train them   in-house, rather than continuing to search for workers who already have   experience with the relevant technology.
None of the contacted firms has revised its outlook since our last   conversations earlier this year or in the closing months of 2011. Most appear to   expect U.S. economic growth around 2 percent in 2012 and company sales growth in   the low single digits. Contacts remain concerned about the European economy and   about political "gridlock" here. A few contacts also expressed slight concern   about prospects for growth in China.
Contacts report wage increases in the low single digits and expect this pace   to continue. Input costs consist primarily of salaries in this sector, but other   cost growth is generally low. Firms say they are able to pass on cost increases   to clients and thus see either steady or slightly increasing profit margins.   Responding firms say they changed employment levels very little in the first   quarter of 2012, except for economic consultants who are hiring to meet demand   growth, and a strategic and management consultant with small layoffs. Aside from   economic consulting, contacts do not plan to expand headcounts in the near   future, requiring more rapid increases in demand to reinitiate hiring.
Most contacts expect moderate growth for the rest of 2012, with some   anticipating an acceleration either late in the year or in 2013. They note very   few downside risks, saying their biggest concerns are the macro economy in   general and uncertainty surrounding partisanship in Washington and the upcoming   election.
Construction activity continues at moderate levels in Boston and low levels   elsewhere in the District. One contact perceives an increased interest in new   retail and medical office projects in Boston for the first time in recent   history. Another contact expects education sector construction activity in the   Boston area to increase later in the year, but notes that large health care   projects continue to be delayed. Market appetites for multifamily apartment   development remain strong in Boston. According to contacts, favorable terms but   strict standards characterize financing markets for construction projects in   Boston and financing conditions in Boston remain markedly better than in the   region's smaller markets. Respondents throughout the region remain cautiously   optimistic about the coming months, but many acknowledge that commercial markets   will not begin to pick up until macroeconomic conditions improve substantially.
Contacts in states with significant levels of inventory remain cautiously   optimistic about the near future; they say sales growth observed in recent   months appears promising, but declining prices remain a source of concern. Other   contacts maintain a more optimistic outlook for coming months due to inventory   levels coming into balance with buyer activity. Based on pending sales figures   and current market activity, contacts expect growth in year-over-year sales to   continue into spring.

