The Ninth District economy grew at a solid pace since the last report. Strength   was noted in consumer spending, professional services, construction,   manufacturing, energy and mining, and agriculture. Residential real estate had   an unexpectedly large increase in sales activity. Warm weather slowed winter   tourism activity. Hiring activity outpaced layoffs since the last report. Wage   increases were moderate, and price increases were generally subdued.
Lack of snow and warm temperatures slowed winter tourism in a number of   areas; however, late-season snow perked up activity in some places. Enough snow   fell in northwestern Wisconsin during February to hold the annual American   Birkebeiner cross-country ski race, bringing thousands of visitors to the area.   Western South Dakota received late-season snow, which enabled a strong finish   for snowmobiling and downhill skiing. A ski resort in Montana reported that   visits and revenue were up from a year ago.
Commercial real estate market activity increased. A commercial broker in   Minneapolis noted more leasing activity, especially for class A space.   Residential real estate had an unexpectedly large increase in sales activity.   Home sales in February were up 23 percent from the same period a year ago in the   Minneapolis-St. Paul area, and the inventory of homes for sale was down 27   percent. However, median sales prices dropped slightly. In the Sioux Falls area,   February home sales were up 5 percent and inventory was down 7 percent relative   to a year ago. A broker noted that lower-priced homes saw an investor "feeding   frenzy," with properties selling in a few days with multiple offers.
Wage increases were moderate. In a first quarter business survey by St. Cloud   State University (Minnesota), 65 percent of respondents left wages unchanged in   the past three months. However, in western North Dakota and eastern Montana,   strong oil-drilling and production activity continued to bid up pay. In   contrast, a Minnesota business that makes in-store advertising for retailers was   cutting compensation for salespeople and some managers while laying off some   staff.
Price increases were generally subdued; however, some exceptions were noted.   More than two-thirds of respondents to the St. Cloud survey reported that prices   at their companies did not change over the past three months. Late March   Minnesota gasoline prices were up about 25 cents per gallon from mid-February   and 20 cents per gallon from a year ago. Airlines raised airfares during the   past couple of months in response to higher fuel costs. A Minnesota-based food   company noted that input cost increases were above 10 percent. Amid higher oil   prices, low natural gas prices have spurred energy and transportation companies   to pursue conversion projects.
