Outlook and Overview The outlook seems considerably brighter compared to the December Redbook. Most Districts report definite signs of improvement in economic activity, or at least judge that improvement is imminent. Least optimistic are Richmond and Dallas (both reported "little change" recently), Cleveland ("the bottom may be near") and Kansas City ("recovery to get underway during the second or third quarter"). Retail sales (ex-autos) are brisk and expected to remain strong in most Districts. Sales of domestic automobiles, especially large models, are improved. Manufacturing activity is mixed, with improved orders from the automotive, electronics and housing sectors, while only the business equipment sector continues to decline. Inventories appear to have fallen to desired levels in most sectors. While further declines are more likely than increases, there is no indication that declines would be sharp. Residential construction continues to improve as sales of new and pre-owned homes have been boosted by mortgage interest rate declines. Agriculture remains a weak spot with farm income down and many farmers in financial difficulty. Bank lending activity is generally flat; business loans are expected to stay flat while consumer loans are expected to improve. Consumer Spending Retail sales (ex-autos) in most Districts are brisk and are expected to remain strong. January department store sales were especially good in Philadelphia ("off to a flying start") and in Cleveland ("a fundamental upswing in demand"). Exceptions were Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco, where either sales showed less strength or retailers were cautious about the outlook. Sales of non-auto consumer durables were generally weak except in Atlanta, where they have been spurred by a resurgence in housing. Some Districts report retail sales have benefited from unseasonally warm weather, but Chicago reports warm weather has hurt apparel sales. Automobile sales, especially of large domestic models, are improved in most Districts. Dallas reports sales of imported cars remain low. Atlanta notes that sales have been assisted by exceptionally low financing rates ("5.9-6.9 percent and even as low as 2.9 percent"). Manufacturing and Mining Activity Industrial activity is mixed, suggesting that a trough may have been reached. Most Districts report orders and activity up at some firms but down at others. Orders have improved for automobiles and trucks, defense and consumer electronics, and products to construct and furnish new houses. Some improvement in orders for steel are reported but steel plant shutdowns continue to be announced. Mining continues very weak, with additional mine shutdowns reported. Business equipment manufacturing is probably the weakest sector, with additional declines in sales and production expected for 1983. Inventories Inventories seem to have fallen to desired levels in most sectors, but declines remain more likely than increases. Retail inventories are lean and at desired levels almost everywhere but there is little sentiment for increasing them. Some manufacturers continued to cut inventories in January while others had already reached their desired inventory levels. Few manufacturers plan to build inventories, even those with rising orders. Inventories of oil drilling supplies remain excessive, and Richmond reports many manufacturers' inventories are well above desired levels. Construction and Real Estate Residential construction continues to improve. Most Districts report sales of new and pre-owned homes have been spurred by declines in mortgage interest rates, and permit issuance and housing starts have increased. Exceptions are Southern California, where the unsold inventory is still large; Philadelphia, where "housing starts remain stalled and new home prices continue to drop;" and Richmond, where the pace of the housing recovery has moderated in recent weeks. Chicago reports house construction has benefited from unusually mild weather. There are scattered reports of improvement in non-residential construction, but Chicago expects a downturn. Agriculture Farmers continue under pressure. Farm income has fallen in several Districts and farmers are reported having difficulty repaying loans. Chicago reports agricultural land prices 20 percent below their late-1970s peak. The payment-in-kind or crop-swap program is expected to achieve a high farmer participation rate in several Districts, reducing production expenses in 1983 and increasing crop prices in 1984. Suppliers of seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, and fuel are expected to be hurt by the program. Finance Bank lending activity is mixed. Several Districts describe business loan demand as relatively flat, with little growth expected in the next few months. Consumer loan demand, commented on by only three Districts, is flat or up slightly, with near-term growth expected as consumer optimism improves. Minneapolis reports demand for new agricultural credit is low but demand for farm debt refinancing is greater than normal. Demand for mortgage loans is reported up in a few Districts, and the 30-year fixed rate loan is the most popular. Conventional mortgage rates edged up in January in Atlanta. The new deposit accounts differ sharply in popularity. The money market deposit account (MMDA) has been marketed aggressively and has achieved rapid growth. Atlanta reports very little attrition from these accounts following expiration of bonus interest rates. Estimates of the share of MMDA deposits that are "new: money" to the institution range from 15 to 60 percent. Public response to the Super NOW account seems to be uniformly unenthusiastic. Kansas City attributes the apathetic response to weak promotion, consumer confusion, and MMDA competitive superiority because of higher yields and lower service charges.