Signs of recovery in the Southeast remain sporadic, but most respondents foresee imminent improvement. Banks and thrifts are not losing funds deposited in new money market accounts despite mid- January rate reductions. The retail sector shows ongoing strength since the holidays. Sustained upward trends in construction are generating resurgence in some housing-related industries, but the clouded situation in agriculture is adversely affecting farm-related manufacturing. The upturn in tourism is localized, but industry spokesmen convey a strong conviction that broad improvement is forthcoming. A review of the economic prospects of individual southeastern states will appear in the February issue of this Bank's Economic Review. Employment and Industry Manufacturing evidences intermittent signs of improvement, but widespread concern over employment persists. Orders at regional carpet mills are rising substantially relative to this time last year, and executives expect an excellent second half. Textile manufacturers, however, are more cautious. Fearing a sudden reversal of economic conditions, they are lengthening hours rather than recalling laid-off workers. Wood producers report a slight increase in orders and express encouragement regarding declining interest rates, but few have plans to expand capacity unless more signs of sustained recovery appear. Inventory depletions have spurred the recall of 700 workers at an Alabama steel mill, but 1,000 remain on indefinite layoff, and a Louisiana aluminum plant will close this week, idling 550 workers. The unemployment rate in two states declined in December but rose in three others, including Florida, where it now approaches the double-digit level prevalent in every other District state except Georgia. Conditions in the chemical industry are more uniformly negative. The industry's inventory-to-sales ratio has recently edged higher; domestic producers fear serious encroachment of market share by low- cost, foreign imports; and federal programs to reduce farm acreage are likely to diminish demand for fertilizer even further. Fertilizer plants in Louisiana and Tennessee and phosphate mines in Florida furloughed still more workers in January. Consumer Spending Our most recent survey of District retailers indicates healthy conditions in this sector. Taut holiday season inventories and brisk sales, relative to last year and to the nation, are responsible for depleting stocks of merchandise. January sales were better than expected. In particular, some retailers report that resurgence in the housing market is stimulating purchases of furniture and appliances. Respondents expect slow gains in sales this quarter but an acceleration in the spring. January auto sales grew faster in the District than in the nation. Despite this performance, competitive pressures have led regional dealers to reduce auto loan rates to 5.9-6.9 percent and even as low as 2.9 percent. Although such financing requires a hefty 25-30 percent downpayment, it is reportedly stimulating floor traffic and purchases. Construction Mortgage activity appears lively. Realtors report a marked increase in traffic and sales during the last two months, reflecting perhaps some release of the "pent-up" demand for houses. Lower rates are attracting a greater number of first-time, middle-income buyers and are reducing activity in adjustable mortgage loans (AMLs). Demand is strongest for conventional, fixed-rate, 30-year loans, rates of which currently range from 12 3/4 to 14 percent. Consumers are seeking to "lock in" lower rates out of fear that they may rise again, and, in fact, conventional mortgage rates are edging back up. Thrift officers report that discount points on FHA and VA loans have jumped several points over the last two to three weeks, reaching as high as nine points in the last week of January. If rates stabilize at current levels, realtors and thrift officers anticipate an overall increase of 25-30 percent in mortgage activity through the spring. A survey of building permit departments indicates that issuances of single-family building permits continued to improve during January. Builders that "haven't been seen in a year" are now paying for permits. Still, some of the district's local economies remain in the doldrums. Columbus reports no changes in permit activity, and Chattanooga contacts observe that recovery is just beginning. Construction activity is probably most depressed in Birmingham, especially in the suburbs; some building inspectors have been laid off. Commercial permit activity remains unchanged in most of the District. Tourism A survey of industry representatives reveals little change in conditions other than seasonal declines during December and January. Convention travel remains soft. Lodgings spokesmen expect a sluggish first quarter but hope for national economic recovery to trigger local improvement by the second half at least. Year-end increases in air passenger traffic of major District-based carriers are more the consequence of discounted fares, which have reduced profit margins, than of incipient economic turnaround: Still, airline officials report that advance bookings are running substantially ahead of this time last year. EPCOT remains the bright spot, but its benefits have yet to extend beyond Orlando to Miami and south Florida. Agriculture An unusually heavy harvest volume has contributed to a downturn in Florida's citrus prices. Late December flooding in Louisiana and Mississippi did little damage to winter wheat crops. The District's winter wheat acreage is down 9 percent from last year but remains well above previous years. Participation in the new Payment-in-Kind and other acreage reduction programs is not likely to reduce production significantly because farmers tend to idle marginal, low-yield lands. With existing large stocks, the small production decline may not result in substantial price strengthening. In January egg prices rebounded 7 percent from their 8-year low in mid-summer. Price stabilization and declining feed costs augur better returns for poultry producers this year. Recent hog price strength reflects continuing small supplies of pork. However, increases in breeding stock and farrowing intentions suggest that an expansion of supply is beginning. Lower feed costs and higher prices portend a second consecutive year of profits for hog farmers in 1983. Finance A survey of banks and thrifts in the District indicates little attrition in money market deposit accounts after the expiration of the original premium offers on January 13 and 14, 1983. All organizations contacted express amazement at the inertia surrounding the accounts in view of the sharp drop in rates from over 20 percent in some cases to 8 1/2-10 percent currently. In addition, institutions polled report that consumers have little interest in the Super NOW accounts. Only half of the institutions contacted are offering the Super NOWs, and most of these are doing little or no advertising to boost them. Panel of Economists The majority of economists polled endorse the Federal Reserve's monetary policy of paying less regard to Ml because of technical factors. Most business economists on the panel regard Ml as an unreliable measure. Only a few state forecasters express concern that recent rates of money supply growth could rekindle inflation. Respondents hold no consensus regarding projected 1983 GNP growth although none is strongly optimistic. A narrow majority of the panel doubts that the recession reached its nadir in the fourth quarter of 1982, but most see at least some signs of recovery. Panelists most frequently cite construction and auto sales as sectors exhibiting signs of recovery, but improvement appears uneven across the District. Respondents expect Georgia, Florida, and Mississippi to surpass or at least equal the nation's rate of rebound; they expect Tennessee, Alabama, and Louisiana to recover at a slower and weaker pace.