The economy of the Twelfth District remains depressed, with unemployment rates above the national average, but for the first time in several months there are a few signs of cautious optimism. Automobile and home sales are up, for example, and there are reports of increased retail sales activity. The overall picture remains bleak, however, with the region's major sectors still deeply depressed. Depository institutions are actively pursuing their newly acquired deposit-taking powers and aggressively promoting the accounts with above-market deposit rates and special bonuses. These developments have increased overall costs of funds by between 25 and 100 basis points according to a special survey by this Bank. Consumer Spending Retail sales appear to be picking up slightly in some areas, even after accounting for inflation. In California's Central Valley, for example, one sales report suggested a 9 percent increase over the year, and in the Los Angeles area, sales in November, December, and the first week of January were up 8, 7, and 13 percent respectively over the year before. Retail sales of franchise operations are generally reported to be up slightly or flat, and there are some reports of active automobile sales. The tempo of retail activity varies considerably, however, with the Pacific Northwest generally reporting the most persistent weakness in consumer enthusiasm. Manufacturing and Mining The picture in this sector continues to be dominated by the extremely weak lumber industry. Although lumber inventories have declined with concomitant firming of lumber and plywood prices in December, there has been no general surge in demand as would be required to rescue an industry in deep recession. (The Oregon State Homebuilders Association reported the lowest number of housing starts in 1982 in their history.) Mining remains weak, particularly copper and coal, but now that silver prices have gone above $11 an ounce some of the mines in North Idaho are reopening. Aerospace presents a mixed picture, with relatively strong reports from Southern California, but with the continued weakness of Boeing's commercial aircraft business retarding this activity in the state of Washington. Despite offsetting growth in military-related employment, observers expect Boeing employment to be down by a net of 8,000 workers for 1983. The electronics industry in California and the Pacific Northwest remains weakened by foreign competition and disappointing domestic demand growth. Primary metals manufacture and fabrication also continue to be weak; the recession in the aluminum industry has been a major factor in the woes of the Pacific Northwest. Construction and Real Estate Recent declines in mortgage interest rates have spurred increases in construction in many parts of the District. In southern Idaho, for example, residential starts in December were up 75 percent over 1981, and nonresidential construction valuation was up 78 percent over the same period. The substantial increase in FRA mortgage applications throughout the District supports the prospect of strong recovery if rates stay down. In certain areas, however, an overhang of unsold inventory has blunted the effect of recent mortgage rate improvements. This is particularly true of Southern California where, despite increased sales activity, residential construction remains depressed and the inventory is dissipating slowly. Agriculture Generally, agriculture has been troubled by both weak prices and weather-related crop damage. In Idaho, where agriculture is the major economic activity, weak cattle prices and a frost-damaged potato crop have caused widespread difficulty; in the latter case, this is the reverse of the expectations earlier this year when a bumper potato crop was anticipated. In California, cold and wet weather damaged raisin grape and almond crops. The estimated loss is between $150 and $300 million. Lettuce and fruit and nut tree growers have benefited, though, as the weather has permitted delayed harvesting of desert lettuce crops and the cold will increase bud- setting on the fruit and nut trees. Financial Institutions The major developments in the District's financial environment have been the introduction of the Money Market Deposit Accounts (MMDAs) and the so-called "Super-NOW" accounts. A special survey by this Reserve Bank finds that the MMDA has been marketed very aggressively with above-market rates and onetime bonuses. Estimates of the amount of "new" money attracted to these instruments varies from 15 percent to almost 50 percent, while estimates of the effect on the overall cost of funds varies from 25 basis points to more than 100 basis points. All respondents agreed, however, that by comparison with the MMDA, the "Super-NOW" account has been much less popular. Mortgage rates in the District have fallen considerably and are now in the 12.75 to 13.50 percent range, with the standard fixed-rate 30-year mortgage by far the most popular instrument in most areas.