Summary Trends in employment indicate that the pace of activity in this District continues to trail the U.S. Additional layoffs and plant closings recently have been announced in several industries. Capital goods demand generally remains weak. Auto production schedules have been reduced but remain near year-earlier levels. Consumer spending and residential investment are relatively strong. Commercial construction, mainly in the Chicago area but also in other District centers, continues at a high level. Some holders of real estate and other assets are pushing to dispose of these by year-end to receive more favorable tax treatment. Prices paid for materials and components increased significantly in October for steel and various other items. A large retailer reports prices of textiles rose after import restrictions were imposed. Livestock and dairy farmers have been helped by low feed costs. Plant Closings and Jobs District companies in several industries continue to announce reductions in employment and shutdowns of manufacturing plants and other facilities. Most notable is General Motors' planned closing of 7 manufacturing plants and part of another plant in the District, currently employing more than 20,000. Cummins Engine, a leading diesel producer, plans to close two plants in the District employing 1,500. We are informed by industry analysts that the GM and Cummins' plant closings are part of broad programs to reduce capacity. Operations will be consolidated in other plants. Other closings recently announced include a computer parts distribution center in Indiana, a town's largest employer with 1,000 workers; an Illinois hog processing plant, 780 employees; two motor vehicles parts makers near Chicago; and the Michigan headquarters of a machine tool maker. Reasons cited for these closings include foreign competition, excess capacity, high labor costs, and mergers. A Chicago-based paper company is cutting 1,000 jobs after a merger, and its local headquarters is expected to close. At least two more tire manufacturing plants in Illinois and Iowa are likely to be shut down. Additional jobs cutbacks have been announced in computers, health care products, banking, machine tools, and heavy-duty transmissions. On the plus side, additions to employment totaling nearly 400 are planned by two consumer appliance makers in Iowa, a response to strong demand. Also favorable are the expansion plans of Japanese vehicle producers in several locations. Capital Goods Demand for mechanical capital goods remains weak. The market for industrial diesel engines is very slow. Orders for machine tools have declined. Oil and gas development equipment continues depressed. The last U.S. producer of 50-100 horsepower tractors plans to close its Michigan plant, and shift all production to Europe. Most smaller tractors have been imported for years. The Department of Justice has signaled that it will raise no antitrust objections to consolidations that would reduce from four to two the number of U.S. producers of large four-wheel-drive tractors. Deere, shut down by a strike since August 1, has offered aggressive incentives to reduce tractor and combine inventories, including big discounts and zero-interest financing for up to two years. Orders have slumped for air conditioning equipment for office buildings, as construction nationwide has turned down. Motor Vehicle Auto production schedules have been cut from earlier plans but remain at high levels through the first quarter of 1987. Heavy truck orders have improved slightly. Sales of heavies are projected by one analyst at 125,000 in 1986 and 130,000, possibly up to 140,000, in 1987. Steel The work stoppage at USX since August 1 has boosted demand for other steel producers. A leading Chicago-area producer is now operating at effective capacity, in part reflecting a reduction by one-third in the firm's capacity. Steel prices have increased on new contracts, but most integrated producers arc still losing money. Analysts expect prices to fall once the USX labor dispute is settled. Orders for steel from capital goods producers remain weak. Oil and gas industry demand for pipe is up, from a very low level. Inflation Prices paid rose at an "alarming rate" in October, according to the Purchasing Management Association of Chicago. Higher prices were reported for a broad range of products and materials. Largest increases were for steel sheet and plates, related to the work stoppage at USX, and also to the Administration's partially effective program to limit steel imports. Other categories with higher prices included corrugated and kraft paper, wood, caustic soda, resins, and precious metals. One airline analyst discounts reports of a renewed "fare war." Nonresidential Construction Work on office buildings in downtown Chicago continues at a vigorous pace, despite high vacancies. Some projects have been deferred for lack of sufficient preleasing, but others already underway assure a high level of activity into 1987. Manufacturing building is low except for warehouse facilities in locations well-served by major roads. Highway work is slowing rapidly because Congress did not pass enabling legislation prior to adjournment. Residential Construction Home building is well above last year in many parts of the Midwest including the Chicago area. Multifamily starts also are up substantially in the Chicago area. Thirty-year fixed-rate mortgages are commonly being offered at rates ranging from 9.5-9.75 percent. Mobile home shipments by Indiana builders, a major center of this industry, are higher this year, in contrast with a declining national trend. Consumer Spending A large general merchandise chain project a sizable rise in general merchandise sales in 1986, with prices up only slightly. A smaller rise in dollar sales and larger price increases are expected in 1987. Restraints on textile and apparel imports are blamed for a recent jump in prices in those lines, which had been stable. Airline traffic was up strongly in September and October, with prices stable. A consultant expects consolidations and resulting cost cuts to improve profitability in 1987. Second mortgages are being advertised extensively by banks, S&LS, and other lenders. Some advertisers are holders of first mortgages. Second mortgages are being advertised as a way of tapping accumulated home equity and avoiding loss of interest deductibility under the new tax law. Agriculture Bumper corn and soybean harvest estimates were raised recently for Iowa and Wisconsin, contrary to many analysts' projections following heavy September-October rains. Production estimates were cut slightly for Indiana. Prices remain low but have edged higher in recent weeks. A feared storage crunch was lessened by a stretched- out harvest season, caused by heavy rains and attractive options offered to farmers which encouraged them to redeem PIK certificates and sell their grain rather than store it under the government's support program. Returns to livestock producers are quite favorable because of low feed costs and higher prices for cattle and hogs. Dairy farmers also are benefitting from lower feed costs. Milk prices have recovered to year ago levels as cuts in dairy cow numbers, from the whole-herd buy-out program, and strong gains in commercial demand for milk have trimmed the milk surplus.