The modest uptrend in the Second District economy continued in recent weeks. Retailers reported over-the-year sales gains in October ranging from moderate to very good and residential building remained strong. Business activity was generally steady to improved, though leasing of office space moderated in some areas. Small Second District banks report that home equity lines of credit represent only a small portion of their consumer loans. Consumer Spending Second District retail sales showed further over-the-year improvement during October with respondents describing gains as ranging from moderate to very good. Purchases by foreign visitors continued to be an important factor, particularly in New York City. Apparel, accessories, furniture and home furnishings were cited as items in generally strong demand. Sales increases during October were from 6-13 percent above year- earlier levels and, in most cases, were 2 to 3 percent higher than targeted. As a result, inventories are well under control and respondents do not anticipate the need for heavy promotional activity in order to move merchandise during the coming Christmas season. Retailers generally expect moderate over-the, year gains in holiday sales but one respondent, whose Christmas catalogue orders have been strong, is looking for a double-digit increase. Business Activity Little change occurred in the Second District's economic expansion since the last meeting. Eighty percent or more of purchasing managers surveyed in Rochester and Buffalo reported that business conditions were stable or improved during October and three-fourths of the managers in the Syracuse area's third quarter survey also gave that response. While inventories were generally described as at satisfactory levels, an increasing percentage of managers has been experiencing a rise in commodity prices. News concerning the District's employment outlook has been mixed in recent weeks. On the negative side, G.E. plans to end its color TV tube operations in upstate New York, where it continues phasing out large engine production, and ITT may cut back its international operations in New York City. On the other hand, several thousand jobs in the chemical and transportation equipment industries have been retained due to the successful negotiation of some longstanding problems. In addition, a new railway car plant has opened in Yonkers and plans for a sizable new operation in the garment industry have been announced. As of October, unemployment rates in New York State and New Jersey remained 1 1/2 percentage points below the national average. With regard to the District's longer term development, New Jersey officials recently announced plans for the first new rail line in the New York metropolitan region in 50 years. The $825 million trolley-bus system will link billions of dollars of proposed residential and commercial projects along 15 miles of the Hudson River waterfront. Construction and Real Estate Activity among District homebuilders continued strong in recent weeks, though the pace was less hectic than at the height of the season in the spring and summer. After two years or more at a record pace, builders in several areas report that pent-up demand seems finally to have been satisfied, and they anticipate a more normal but healthy rate of activity in 1987. While some seasonal slack will occur over the next few months, a number of builders have already signed contracts for homes to be constructed in the spring of next year. Leasing activity in the commercial real estate market was at a slow to moderate pace in much of the Second District during recent weeks. A major exception was downtown Manhattan where leasing of new financial center buildings remained strong. While no dramatic absorption of space occurred in areas such as northern New Jersey, Fairfield County, and Westchester County, where more than ample supplies of office space exist, few major new projects have been undertaken there in recent months. As a result, vacancy rates in these areas have shown over-the-year declines. However, in downtown and mid-Manhattan, where many new buildings have come on line, rates have moved somewhat higher though they are still well below the national average. Financial Developments Small banks in the Second District report that home equity lines of credit currently represent only a small portion of their outstanding consumer loans. While all of the surveyed banks have increased their efforts to market the product, each expected only moderate growth in its volume of these loans through 1987. Several banks believe that more rapid growth would be restrained by competition from other banks and non-banks and also by a continued surge in second mortgages and refinancing arrangements. Loan officers state that the most common uses of the credit line include consolidating debt, financing education, and providing additional cash flow for business. The banks suggested that they can prevent consumers from using the line of credit as a proxy for other types of consumer loans by providing counseling and by maintaining high underwriting standards. However, only one bank indicated that it required its applicants to provide information on how the money is to be used, and none used this type of information as a criterion for lending.