Overview Recent improvements are reported in economic activity and the economic outlook in the Tenth District, apart from the agricultural and energy sectors which remain depressed. General retail sales are improving and retailers are optimistic about the rest of 1986. Auto sales are weaker, however, and dealers expect lagging sales throughout the year. Both retailers and manufacturers' purchasing agents expect reduced inventory purchases. Housing activity is expected to remain strong, except for some soft local markets. Much of the increased mortgage demand is for refinancing. Loan demand at commercial banks remains mixed, and deposits are higher. Agricultural lenders report somewhat tighter credit conditions than a year earlier. Retail Trade The outlook for retail sales and prices is generally positive. Retailers report that sales remain higher than a year ago and recently have been improving. Sales of men's and women's apparel were particularly strong over the last three months. Retailers are optimistic that sales will stay above year-ago levels. Prices have been steady and are expected to change little over the rest of the year. Because inventory levels range from satisfactory to high, leading retailers expect steady to slightly reduced inventory purchases for the reminder of 1986. Automobile Sales Auto sales typically are down compared with a year ago. Although financing is readily available, favorable credit conditions have not stimulated sales. Most dealers report their inventory levels are acceptable to slightly high. Dealers expect that automobile sales will continue to lag behind 1985 levels throughout the remainder of the year. Purchasing Agents Most purchasing agents have seen little or no change in the prices of their major inputs compared with a year earlier. Moreover, no substantial price changes are expected for the remainder of 1986. Most firms have been trimming their materials inventory levels and plan to continue this process through the rest of the year. Purchasing agents generally are experiencing no problem with the availability or delivery of materials. Housing Activity and Finance Tenth District housing activity varies widely depending on the strength of the local markets. In some areas experiencing economic hardships, the demand for new houses has dropped dramatically and is expected to remain at a low level for the rest of the year. However, homebuilders in most areas report that starts of single-family dwellings have increased over the year-ago period, while multi-family starts have declined. These builders expect that housing starts will remain relatively strong over the rest of this year. Builders report good availability of housing materials and no delivery problems. Most materials prices are steady, though some builders are encountering higher lumber prices. Savings and loan institutions have experienced reduced savings inflows relative to a year earlier, but give mixed reports about their expectations for the months ahead. Mortgage activity continues to increase mainly because of the strong demand for refinancing. In areas where homes are selling, mortgage demand is expected to increase further over the next few months. Mortgage rates have been declining along with rates nationwide. Most respondents expect mortgage rates to fall a little more but feel that increases could occur later in the year. Energy The downward slide in crude oil prices and a persistent surplus of natural gas have led to lower exploration, development, and production activity in the Tenth District. The average weekly number of operating drilling rigs fell from 550 in January to 327 in March. Production from high-cost stripper wells has been curtailed and substantial further cuts are expected if crude oil prices remain in the $12 to $15 per barrel range. Banking For a second month in a row, total loan demand was mixed and total deposits were higher at Tenth District banks. Residential real estate loans were generally up while consumer loans were mixed and commercial and industrial loans, agricultural loans, and commercial real estate loans were constant to down. Roughly half of the bankers surveyed lowered their prime rate during the last month, and a majority expected further declines even before the latest discount rate cut. Nearly half of the respondents lowered their consumer loan rates during the last month and another half look for declines in the near future. Total deposits rose at Tenth District banks, with categories other than large CD's and passbook savings all generally registering gains. Agriculture A good winter wheat crop is reported throughout most of the Tenth District. Due to the relatively mild winter weather, the crop is progressing on schedule. But a fairly dry spring for many winter wheat regions may soon cause the crop to begin to show signs of stress. With the dry mild weather conditions, field work for planting other crops is running on schedule or ahead of schedule. District lenders are completing their spring loan arrangements. In some areas up to 10 percent of borrowers have been denied credit, though about 5 percent seems to be more representative. Even lenders not denying credit to clients report that conditions are somewhat tighter than last year, and the number of marginal borrowers is up from a year ago. The dairy herd buy-out program has provoked strong emotional responses from cattlemen in the Tenth District. Weakened cattle prices are being blamed, wholly or in part, on the buy-out. Though bankers in a few areas report that cattle may have been withheld from the market in response to the lower prices, most indicate that markets have not been disrupted.