The decline in the price of oil has brought economic expansion in the Eleventh District to a standstill. The drilling rig count continues to plunge and there is no sign that the bottom has yet been reached. Contract values for both residential and nonresidential construction are down. Falling demand from the energy and construction sectors has led to reduced sales by manufacturers. Retail sales are soft, especially in the energy-dependent areas of the District. Auto sales have begun to slow from the rapid pace of the previous two years. The recent flat loan demand at the District's large banks reflects the sluggish economy. In agriculture, credit problems are becoming more serious. Manufacturing Sales in manufacturing have been depressed by problems in construction and in the energy industry. Glass producers note a decline in orders that is tied to the downturn in nonresidential construction, but the output of lumber and wood products is stable as a result of strength in orders from outside the District. Primary and fabricated metals producers are adjusting to a drop in orders from the construction and energy sectors, but respondents indicate that past efforts to diversify their product lines should shelter them from serious weakness. Sales of oilfield machinery are sliding because of weakening drilling activity. District refiners have recently decreased production, but that is a response to a seasonal downturn in demand. Refiners expect sales this year to be high owing to reduced product prices. On the more positive side, electronics firms report that their sales have stabilized and are expected to rise, and aircraft employment and output is up sharply. Among apparel producers, one major manufacturer has just announced large layoffs, but past modernization and marketing efforts are beginning to help other firms against foreign competition. Energy The extraction portion of the energy industry continues to slide with little chance of stabilizing in the near future. The Texas rig count has fallen to 50 percent of year-earlier levels, compared to a 30-percent decline during the latter half of 1985. Well permit applications, a leading indicator of drilling activity, are 50 percent below a year earlier in District states. Another leading indicator, the seismic crew count, has dropped 30 percent from last year's level. Construction Reductions in the values of both nonresidential and residential construction contracts are widespread. Absorption rates for office space have fallen. Vacancy rates in most major cities are high and may increase further as office space that is now under construction is completed. Residential construction had been steady, but the value of contracts plummeted in March, paced by a large drop in multifamily units. Retail Sales Retail sales mirror the slowdown in other portions of the District economy. The nominal level of retail sales in energy-dependent areas has declined significantly. Elsewhere, slight gains have occurred. All product lines are moving slowly, especially consumer durables. Respondents report acceptable inventory levels, but they indicate that continued sluggish sales may lead to undesired inventory accumulation. Auto Purchases Auto purchases have ebbed in response to weakness in the District economy and to what dealers say is buyer satiation in the wake of the special promotions of 1984 and 1985, Sales declines, compared with a year earlier, are widespread throughout the District. Dealers note that involuntary inventory accumulation has begun to occur. Large Banks Asset growth at the District's large banks varies widely among individual institutions, but overall increases are down sharply from growth rates last year. Growth in real estate loans has slipped and business lows have been declining absolutely from year-earlier levels. The level of deposits at large banks is little changed from a year ago. Continued weakness in energy and construction recently induced the large District banks to increase their provisions to loan loss reserves. At thrift institutions, deposit growth remains strong. Farmers and Ranchers Income prospects for District farmers and ranchers are mixed. The impact of low crop prices is likely to be offset by more generous government programs and reduced grain costs will offset lower beef prices. Generally, District agricultural prices were lower in March than in February and they are likely to remain significantly below year-earlier levels. District agricultural land values continued to fall modestly in the first quarter. Agricultural bankers report that the proportion of agricultural loans with repayment problems is up from a year ago. Nearly 10 percent of last year's farm borrowers will not receive operating loans this year, compared with a reduction of 7 percent in 1985. Although the falling price of energy has lowered operating expenses for District farmers, declines in income from oil and gas royalties are likely to more than offset these cost reductions.