Summary The Eighth District indicators of real economic activity were higher than national figures over the most recent period. Expansion of both goods- and services-producing industries contributed to substantial employment growth in recent months. Retail sales have been strong this year with growth surpassing that of the nation. Respondents expect mortgage refinancing to result in increased disposable income that may boost future consumer spending. Spurred by mild weather in the region, construction activity in the first quarter also exceeded national figures. Financial and agricultural indicators are less encouraging, with commercial and consumer lending slowing in the first quarter and no change in the forecast of low prices for District farm products. Employment Eighth District nonagricultural employment grew at a 1.2 percent annual rate in February, trailing the 1.9 percent national rate. In the three-month period ending in February, however, the 10.7 percent growth rate of District nonagricultural employment exceeded the nation's 3.6 percent rate. District manufacturing employment increased at a 4.8 percent annual rate in the three months ending in February compared with a 2.1 percent rate for the nation. Despite these strong employment figures, even faster growth in the labor force raised the Eighth District unemployment rate in February from 7.7 to 8.0 percent. Consumer Spending District retail sales growth continues to exceed the national pace. January sales in the region were 10.9 percent above year-ago levels while nationally sales increased by 6.2 percent. District retail sales grew at a 1.3 percent annual rate for the three months through January while the nation's sales declined slightly during the period. Some District retailers have suggested that spending would be higher were it not for the "up-front" closing costs incurred when consumers refinance home mortgages. The results of a survey of 11 District financial institutions, however, suggest that mortgage refinancing has not restrained consumer spending and, in fact, should result in improved cash flows that could lead to further growth of consumer spending. Most indicated that the overwhelming majority of refinancers have been able to include the closing costs in the new mortgage and still enjoy lower monthly payments. Construction Spurred by good weather, first quarter construction activity grew faster in the District than in the nation. Contracts for District residential construction grew by 8.5 percent (simple rate) from the previous quarter, while a 1.9 percent decline was posted for the nation. District nonresidential construction contracts increased by 4.3 percent in the first quarter while the national figure declined by 15.2 percent. Banking Total loans at large District banks grew at a 9.7 percent rate for the first quarter. This increase represents a considerable slowing from the 19.3 percent annual rate of growth recorded for the first three months of 1985. Commercial lending continues to be sluggish, increasing at a 6.6 percent rate, compared with a 16.0 percent rate of growth for the first quarter of last year. Over the most recent three months, however, month-to-month growth rates have been accelerating. Compared with recent experience, the growth of consumer lending is slower than that for the same period last year. Consumer lending expanded at a 15.8 percent rate, while a 24.1 percent rate of growth was recorded for the first quarter of 1985. The Missouri interstate banking bill has received both Senate and House endorsement and now awaits the Governor's approval. The bill provides for a reciprocal agreement with eight neighboring states and contains no provision for full nationwide banking. Agriculture The price outlook for major District crops remains depressed as futures prices for this season's crops have fallen to levels well below old crop prices. Corn futures prices, for example, are at a nine-year low while fall cotton futures are 38 percent below current prices. Farmland values are expected to continue falling in tandem with crop prices as they have over the last four years. Bank data indicate similar farm lending trends in the District and the U.S. Loans outstanding to farmers declined in 1985 by 10.2 and 12.3 percent, respectively, at banks in the nation and the District. The percent of overdue farm loans at agricultural banks increased from 2.9 percent in 1983 to 5.5 percent in 1985 in the District and from 2.9 percent to 4.2 percent in the nation. Because loans that are eventually written off first appear as overdue loans, these increases in overdue loans suggest that agricultural loan losses will continue to rise in the future.