Summary Most contacts at District companies report improving conditions, continuing a tread toward somewhat greater optimism. District payroll employment has shown some expansion, but still trails the U.S. performance. Purchasing managers in Chicago and Milwaukee noted increasing production and orders in March. Other contacts note growth in real estate transactions, residential construction, and higher shipments of paperboard, cement, concrete, gypsum board, basic and specialty chemicals, household appliances, and oil products. There is increasing evidence of favorable results from the lower dollar. Lower than expected sales or some auto models have led to inventory accumulation and new sales incentives. Heavy truck sales also are down, but sales of light and medium trucks remain strong. Sales of RVs and tourism are expected to increase substantially, boosted by the sharp drop in gasoline prices. Mechanical capital goods remain depressed, but there has been some rise in lighter construction equipment. Slower growth of federal spending and flat capital spending, with weakness in oil/gas, electric utilities, steel, and most machinery, are tending to offset at least part of the positive effects on activity of lower energy costs, reduced interest rates, and the depreciation of the dollar. Analysts see increased evidence that the 5-year slide in District farm real estate values will end later this year. Paperboard District analysts report "near-boom conditions" in the cardboard box industry. Strength in this sector is not matched elsewhere. Supplies are tight and operating rates high. Exports of linerboard are well above last year, attributed to the lower dollar and renewed economic expansion in Europe. Price increases of about 10 percent have been announced by leading producers, with 6 to 7 percent expected to "stick." Motor Vehicles Auto production plans have been revised down in light of excessive inventories, but remain near last year's levels. Some assembly plants have been closed temporarily in Michigan and Wisconsin. Light-duty truck sales have softened slightly but remain near record levels and output schedules are still above last year. Orders for medium trucks have increased slightly in recent weeks. An industry analyst expects sales of heavies to be down about 10 percent this year, but sees sales of mediums about even with last year, rather than down as expected earlier. Foreign competition is increasing for both medium and heavy trucks. Steel Orders for sheet steel have slipped, after strengthening in the first quarter, because of cuts in auto production schedules. Production at Chicago and Detroit area mills, through mid-April, is ahead of a year ago, but still at low and unprofitable levels. The market for sheet is being supported by continued relatively high demand for most autos, light trucks, and appliances. Demand for structural steel and activity at service centers are vigorous. Orders for machinery are weak. Shipments to the oil and gas industries are virtually at a standstill, except for pipelines. Capital Goods Weakness in capital spending is evident in electric utilities, machinery, steel, railroads, and water transport. A major electric utility is seeking regulatory approval of higher rates which would allow conversion of a stalled nuclear power plant to gas. No pickup is evident in orders for diesel engines for non-truck markets. A major District farm equipment producer has scheduled its North American farm equipment output 14 percent less than its low 1985 level, and plans further cuts in employment. Smaller types of construction equipment, paper-related equipment, and food processing equipment are picking up moderately. Demand has revived for electronic capital goods. The sharp decline in capital spending by oil companies has less adverse effect in this District than elsewhere. Nonresidential Construction Office building is slowing in the Chicago suburbs, but bidding volume continues strong in downtown Chicago, with large new projects announced. Commercial mortgages are readily available, with rates under 10 percent, down about 150 basis points since the beginning of the year. Life insurance companies are seeking more commercial mortgages. Construction of industrial buildings in the 40-50,000 square foot range is picking up. Ground was recently broken for an auto assembly plant in Illinois, a joint venture of an American and a Japanese auto maker. Residential Construction Demand for new and used housing is vigorous, spurred by low mortgage interest rates. Permits for new housing construction, for 3 months, are up 40 percent or more from year ago in the District. Fixed-rate, 30-year mortgages are available below 10 percent. Most borrowers want fixed-rate loans. New loans together with a huge volume of refinancings have caused delays in processing loan applications. Appropriately priced homes sell quickly, and home prices have risen substantially in favored suburban areas. Consumer Spending A large general merchandise chain reports improved sales in recent weeks, helped by mild weather. Inventories are described as flat. Analysts are optimistic about demand through the rest of this year, partly because of gains in spendable income associated with lower energy prices and reduced mortgage payments. Credit sales have not kept pace with total sales recently, and delinquencies are approaching 1980 highs. The strong housing market, for new and used homes, is boosting sales of appliances and home furnishings. Two large national oil companies are abandoning retailing in the Chicago area. Agriculture The District's winter wheat crop, which ranks a distant third to corn and soybeans in terms of crop marketings, suffered considerable winterkill damage. Wheat farmers will be able to offset some of the loss by replanting other crops or using seriously affected acreage to meet set-aside requirements. Favorable weather has permitted District crop farmers to get an early start on spring fieldwork, which may reduce subsequent weather stress. Bids from dairy farmers that account for 5.4 percent of the District's milk production, versus 8.7 percent nationwide, have been accepted for the government's whole-herd dairy buy-out program. These dairy farmers must liquidate their entire dairy herds within 18 months. Anticipation of increased dairy cattle slaughter undermined livestock prices in recent weeks. District farmland values, on average, declined nearly 3 percent during the first quarter, to 17 percent below a year earlier and 45 percent below the 1981 peak, but analysts increasingly believe the land market will bottom later this year. Transactions in farm real estate are up, from very low levels a year ago. But with heavy surpluses likely to continue in agriculture, no bounceback in land values is expected.