Expansion continues at a lackluster pace in the First District. Although most retailers report sales declines from a year earlier, tourism is up. while some manufacturers continue to experience steady growth, half the manufacturers contacted have seen sales weaken in recent months. Commercial real estate in New England is sluggish, and the insurance industry reports mixed results. Retail Most retailers in the First District report sales declines relative to year-earlier levels during September and October, with decreases ranging from 1 to 20 percent. Apparel contacts, in particular, are disappointed that, for the second year in a row, a back-to-school upturn did not occur. Soft sales extend to most non-apparel retailers, including homebuilding/lumber companies; the one exception is a chain with double-digit growth from a year ago. Respondents plan to use frequent promotions during the approaching holiday season, hoping to achieve modest sales gains over last year. Most vendor prices remain stable; however, promotional pressures are eating away at gross margins and profits. The New England retail landscape continues to shift as several off-price retailers disappear or reorganize under the protection of Chapter 11. Only one contact plans significant increases in capital budget and employment levels in the coming year. By contrast, the region's tourist industry reports significant gains in September and October compared to the previous fall's strong performance. Earlier concerns of potentially disappointing foliage did not materialize and several state tourist offices report a rise in hotel and motel occupancy rates, attraction attendance, and general tourist traffic. Manufacturing Manufacturing contacts in the First District indicate mixed trends. Sales of some consumer nondurables and specialized equipment are comfortably above year-ago levels. But about half of this month's sample, including firms in the paper and automotive products industries, report that sales growth has weakened in recent months compared to earlier in the year. Contacts generally indicate that trends overseas are stronger than in the United States, with Europe showing signs of recovery and most emerging markets performing well. Many manufacturers report some softening of prices that had sharply escalated earlier in the year, including paper and packaging, metals, plastics, cotton, and synthetic fibers. Finished goods prices generally are increasing only 1 to 4 percent at annual rates, with higher inflation for paper products. Contacts selling to the aircraft, automotive, and apparel industries are experiencing a squeeze on profits as a result of their limited scope to raise prices. Just over half the contacts report that their employment is little changed from a year ago; most of the remaining manufacturers have cut their work forces. Typical 1995 wage and salary increases are in the range of 2 to 4 percent, with higher increases for some high technology employees or in tight labor markets. About one-third of the contacts are contemplating a wage freeze and/or employment cutbacks in 1996. Most respondents report heavy capital expenditures this year, but one-third are now cutting back because of budgetary constraints. Manufacturers expect modest growth in the U.S. economy in the next year. Some are optimistic about their own company's prospects based on export opportunities or a recovery for their industry, while others are concerned about having to reduce costs or reorient their mix of products. Temporary Employment Firms Temporary workers remain in high demand in New England, where contacts report that outsourcing is as popular as ever. The clerical sector enjoyed a strong summer season, while activity in the high tech areas has picked up during the fall. Temporary service agencies report a rise in vendor-on- premises operations, in which they bid to handle all the hiring for a client firm. Commercial Real Estate Respondents agree that commercial real estate in the First District is moving at a sluggish pace. In the Boston office market, asking rents have increased a little bit, but net absorption is barely growing and leases are being signed at the same rates as last year. The suburban market is in better shape, with effective rents improving in some areas, although ample space is still available for all tenant sizes. Contacts report that office leasing in Hartford, Springfield, and Providence is languishing, while the Portland market shows some moderate gains. One contact noted that capital is plentiful to finance the purchase of existing (well-leased) buildings, because investors perceive New England real estate as having low downside risk at this time. Nonbank Financial Services Some life insurance companies report higher sales in the third quarter of 1995 than in the third quarter of 1994, others report declines. Employment at responding companies is flat to down. One company expects a large reduction in employment in the fourth quarter because of a merger. Property/casualty insurers face losses in the fourth quarter attributable to this fall's hurricanes. The Outlook The New England Economic Project (NEEP), a nonprofit forecasting group, released its semi-annual regional forecast in late October. NEEP has revised its forecast downward to show a 1.1 percent annual rate of total employment growth in New England in both 1995 and 1996. Health, business, and other services are projected to expand employment at an above-average rate. The number of jobs in the finance-insurance-real estate and transportation-public utilities industries is expected to remain virtually unchanged, while manufacturing employment continues to slip.