Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve districts suggest that moderate growth in economic activity continued in early fall, although perhaps at a slower pace than at the time of the previous set of reports. The evidence of a possible slowing in demand mainly was from the reports on consumer spending, which suggested a pause in retail sales in some districts. However, a pickup in exports and strong domestic demand for certain types of business equipment led to stable or increased manufacturing activity in most districts, after the dropback earlier in the year. Although the summer rebound in residential construction was not generally augmented by additional gains, the slightly improved level of building activity appeared to be maintained in recent months. Some districts reported that nonresidential construction strengthened, and several districts noted a firming in commercial and industrial leasing activity. A few districts reported new manifestations of labor market tightness, but overall wage gains remained moderate, and reports of rapidly rising materials costs have lessened substantially. Retail Trade Retail sales, on the whole, appeared to be soft in early fall. Several of the districts with preliminary reports on October sales, Boston, Chicago, New York, and Philadelphia, noted some signs of weakened spending, although this partly was attributed to weather- related sales volatility. Elsewhere, retail sales results generally were described as disappointing and below expectations. Retail inventories are somewhat heavy with fall merchandise in several districts, and some retailers have scaled back stocking plans to prevent a further runup. Apparel and other soft goods appear to have been the weakest sales areas. Reports on sales of autos and other big ticket items were mixed. Manufacturing Many districts reported stable or increased manufacturing activity, after the dropback earlier in the year. Chicago, New York, Philadelphia, and Richmond noted generally rising manufacturing output. Dallas, Philadelphia, and San Francisco pointed to makers of semiconductors, computer products, and other electrical machinery as a major source of strength. Elsewhere, in Atlanta, Boston, Cleveland, and St. Louis, changes in manufacturing activity were mixed, as renewed strength in exports offset slowing domestic demand for some types of goods. Real Estate and Construction On balance, residential building activity appears to have been little changed this fall, after the summer rebound. However, the pace of residential construction varied widely by geographic area. In Philadelphia and Richmond, residential construction was scaled back. Chicago and Minneapolis finished the peak building season at high levels, and parts of the San Francisco district reported increased residential construction. In Atlanta and Kansas City, multi-family construction strengthened recently, whereas Dallas reported a pickup in construction of single-family units. In many of the areas with increased residential construction, home sales also have improved lately, as buyers took advantage of lower mortgage interest rates. Some districts reported strengthening nonresidential construction. St. Louis and San Francisco suggested that there has been a general increase in nonresidential building activity. Atlanta and Richmond pointed to gains in construction of structures for commercial use, whereas Minneapolis noted increased construction of office and warehouse space. Moreover, demand for nonresidential space picked up in Atlanta, Dallas, Richmond, St. Louis, and parts of the San Francisco district. In contrast, office and commercial real estate markets were sluggish in Philadelphia, Boston, and New York. Services Some districts mentioned increased activity in selected service- producing industries. Demand for business services increased in some districts; Dallas and San Francisco noted increased demand, for legal or financial advice on business transactions, and Boston mentioned a pickup in outsourcing of personnel department functions to temporary help agencies. Atlanta, Boston, Minneapolis, and San Francisco noted gains in tourism. Financial Institutions Loan demand reportedly increased in early fall in most districts. Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, and San Francisco singled out business lending as the primary source of increased loan volumes. New York found that demand for consumer loans also increased in the last two months. Agriculture and Natural Resources The recent harvests of many major crops were marked by lower than average yields and increases in prices. St. Louis, Kansas City, and other districts noted that yields of corn and soybeans were below average, and prices increased in recent months. Richmond, St. Louis, and Dallas also noted that adverse weather and insect problems hurt the cotton crop. In the San Francisco district, yields for selected crops were low too, but some agricultural producers there recently have benefited from increased exports of apples and other agricultural commodities. Wages and Prices Reports of rapidly rising materials costs have lessened, and several districts noted a partial reversal of earlier commodity price run- ups. Boston mentioned softening of prices of paper packaging materials, metals, and plastics. Cleveland reported a drop in steel prices, after earlier increases. Some finished manufactured goods prices still are under pressure from the earlier runup in costs of intermediate materials. However, reports from several districts suggest that retail goods prices were little changed, and in some cases, discounting this fall was heavier than last year. A few districts reported new manifestations of labor market tightness, but overall wage gains apparently remained moderate. The report from the Minnesota district noted that, as it has become harder to attract and keep good workers in that area, some firms have expanded employee eligibility for benefits. Many districts continued to emphasize that skilled workers, particularly construction workers in fast-growing states and employees in high technology industries, have been commanding larger than average wage gains. In this report, Cleveland also noted that the movement of workers from less-skilled jobs into skilled positions is increasing training costs of employers and pushing up wages for less-skilled workers, who reportedly also are in short supply in many parts of that District. In Richmond and Chicago, salaries of workers at temporary help supply agencies were said to have increased particularly fast. Reports from San Francisco suggested that other types of workers are focusing more on job security than on wages, restraining the overall pace of increase in labor compensation rates.