Reports on District economic conditions were mixed in recent weeks. The market for commercial real estate in Manhattan weakened in September and retail sales slowed sharply during the first two weeks of October. In more positive news, unemployment rates declined in both New York and New Jersey in September, while purchasing managers across much of the District reported that manufacturing production had increased. Finally, the demand for nearly all types of loans at small and medium sized banks is higher than it was two months ago. Consumer Spending District retail sales rose moderately in September. Sales were generally on or slightly below plan, with sales gains ranging from zero to five percent on a year-over-year basis. Several contacts suggested that September results were somewhat weaker than they appeared at first glance, because of a change in buying patterns; this year, consumers generally postponed purchases of back-to-school apparel until September. Retail sales weakened considerably during the first two weeks of October. Nearly all of the contacts reported that sales were below plan, and several noted that they had curtailed orders to prevent inventories from building. Some of the contacts attributed the weakness to unseasonably warm weather which caused apparel sales to slow. But others noted that sales of such big ticket items as furniture and home electronics, which are not weather-related, also softened. District retailers report that price pressures remained constant or eased during September and October. Several contacts expressed concern that continued weak sales could lead to competitive markdowns early in the Christmas selling season. Construction and Real Estate The market for commercial real estate in midtown Manhattan was flat in September, while the downtown market continued to weaken. Midtown vacancy rates remained unchanged at 13.7 percent, as a pickup in leasing activity was offset by space returned to the market. Although leasing activity in downtown Manhattan remained steady; a sharp rise in space returned to the market caused downtown vacancy rates to jump 0.5 percentage points to 25.6 percent. The downtown market's weakness has caused average asking rents to decline to an average of $26.12 per square foot, the lowest level quoted since the downturn began in 1989. In more positive news, the State Legislature passed the downtown revitalization plan, which is widely expected to give the real estate market in lower Manhattan a much-needed boost. In contrast to the weakness in much of Manhattan's commercial real estate market, the market for residential real estate in Manhattan strengthened during the third quarter. More co-ops and condos were sold and the average sale price per room increased, particularly for large units in prime buildings. Other Business Activity Based on the household survey, unemployment rates in both New York and New Jersey declined in September. New York's rate decreased 0.3 percentage points to 6.8 percent, while New Jersey's rate declined a steeper 0.9 percentage points to 5.7 percent. Although employment increased at a moderate pace in both states, New Jersey also experienced a sharp decrease In its civilian labor force. Purchasing managers in the Buffalo, Rochester, and New York City metropolitan areas report that manufacturing production increased robustly during September; in the New York City area, the pace of overall business conditions strengthened for the third consecutive month. Commodity price pressures moderated in both the Rochester and New York City regions, while remaining constant in Buffalo. Financial Developments According to the senior loan officers surveyed at small and medium sized banks in the District, demand for nearly all types of loans is slightly higher compared with two months ago, The largest increases in activity occurred in the consumer loan and nonresidential mortgage segments. Demand for the former is higher at over 25 percent of the banks, and steady at almost 50 percent; demand for the latter Is higher at about 20 percent and steady at about 70 percent. The residential mortgage segment is the only loan category that did not strengthen. It is now the weakest segment, with demand lower at about 40 percent of the banks and steady at another 40 percent. Average loan rates are for the most part unchanged or lower. The spread between the average lending and deposit rates is narrowing, mainly due to lower loan rates. Over 40 percent of the participants report smaller spreads, and about half report steady spreads. The number of loan delinquencies has decreased over the past two months, especially for nonresidential mortgages. Credit standards have remained essentially unchanged, with all respondents just as willing or more willing to lend.