Overview Indicators of Fifth District economic expansion changed little on net since the last Beige Book. Growth increased in manufacturing but decreased in service production and state revenues. Employment agencies saw stronger demand for temporary workers, and tourism industry sources reported that business was down from August. Retail, real estate, port, and agriculture contacts reported that activity was mixed in their industries, while financial industry sources saw little change in lending activity. Retail Trade Indicators of retail activity growth were mixed in September, according to results from a mail survey of District retailers. Sales revenue, employment, and wage growth slowed. Inventory, big-ticket sales, and shopper traffic growth increased. Survey respondents indicated that retail prices rose more slowly in September than in August. They expected their prices to rise more slowly during the next six months than they had expected in August. Service Production Service-sector growth slowed in September from August, according to results from a District mail survey. Revenue, employment, and wage growth declined. Service producers reported that prices rose more slowly in September. They expected their prices to rise during the next six months at the same rate as they had expected in August. Manufacturing Indicators of factory growth increased in September from their August levels, according to results from a mail survey of Fifth District manufacturers. Survey respondents reported that growth in shipments, new orders, and backlogs increased; workweek and employment growth changed little. Manufacturers indicated that finished goods prices rose faster in September than in August and that raw materials prices rose at about the same rate; both grew at rates below the general inflation rate. Respondents expected their prices to rise slightly less during the next six months than they had expected in August. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity in September and early October was below that of August and a year ago. Contacts suggested that the threat of storms had kept tourists away from coastal areas. Fall bookings were up compared to a year ago, and contacts expected better-than-normal business and some price increases during the next six months. Port Activity Representatives at District ports reported that export levels in September were higher than those in August and a year ago, while import levels were lower. Contacts expected exports and imports to increase during the next six months. Temporary Employment A telephone survey of Fifth District temporary employment agencies indicated that the demand for temporary workers was higher in September and early October than in August or a year ago. One contact said, "There are more jobs than there are people to fill them." Contacts expected demand during the next six months to be greater than usual. Temporary workers' wages rose faster than the general price level during the past year, although most contacts continued to expect wages to stabilize during the next six months. Finance District financial institutions reported in a telephone survey that credit market activity changed little. Demand was nearly unchanged for commercial, consumer, and mortgage loans. Interest rates fell slightly for all three loan categories. Residential Real Estate According to a telephone survey of District real estate agents and homebuilders, residential real estate activity was down in September and early October. Housing sales changed little; starts, permits, and buyer traffic were down, however. Wages and building material prices rose during the period, although one contact in West Virginia said a sluggish market there was leading to falling wages. Commercial Real Estate District contacts reported in a telephone survey that commercial real estate activity increased in September and early October. Leasing activity and commercial rents rose, and vacancy rates declined. The availability of prime office space continued to tighten in most of the District, and several contacts reported shortages, especially in the Carolinas and Virginia. Contacts reported an increase in new construction. State Revenues In a mail survey, state government contacts indicated experiencing slower tax revenue growth in September. Compared with August, real revenue growth was slower in South Carolina and Virginia; the same in the District of Columbia, Maryland, and North Carolina; and higher in West Virginia. Agriculture District agricultural conditions were mixed in recent weeks, according to agricultural analysts surveyed by telephone. Moderate- to-heavy rainfall from Hurricane Opal fell across most of the District; this rain harmed unharvested cotton and soybean crops but benefited recently planted small-grain and late vegetable crops. The rainfall also improved pasture and hay conditions. Fall harvesting was delayed by the weather but was ahead of its normal pace at the time of the survey.