Summary The Seventh District economy continued to expand moderately in September and early October. Retail sales growth rebounded in September from heat wave-depressed levels in August and then turned mixed in the first two weeks of October. Stronger housing activity is anticipated to help prompt greater retail sales gains in the near term, but several large retailers expressed more caution about growth prospects in 1996 than they did in previous months. Consumer durable goods production has taken the lead in District industrial output growth, while increasingly mixed messages have arisen in previously strong capital goods industries. Labor markets remain relatively tight, and reports of rising wages in entry-level positions have grown increasingly frequent. However, surveys of retailers and manufacturers showed little sign of accelerating price increases. Retail Sales Retail sales rebounded in September from heat wave-depressed levels in August, but October sales reports were mixed. Weather played the most important role determining recent department store sales patterns, with sales strengthening during colder weather in early October, and fading during unseasonably warmer weather during mid- month. Retailers generally remain optimistic about prospects for the holiday season, partly because of a longer-than-usual holiday season this year. Several large retailers expressed greater caution about sales prospects in 1996 than they did in previous months, however. One large retail chain reported pronounced weakness in customer traffic in its own and its competitors stores in the first two weeks of October. This chain reduced its orders and inventory plans slightly, and anticipated further retrenchment and greater promotional activity in the absence of a turnaround. Another large department store chain characterized recent trends as simply "okay, on balance" noting sharply increased volatility in within-month sales results. This contact reported that the tardy arrival of back- to-school and other seasonal sales prompted extraordinarily large year-over-year sales gains in mid-to-late September, followed by weaker results in early October. Retailing contacts remained optimistic that gains in sales of housing-related items would strengthen in line with traditional lags following stronger housing activity. A survey of retailers in Iowa showed inventory plans were in line with or slightly stronger than year-earlier intentions, while a survey of retailers in Michigan showed that inventory and hiring plans for coming months had risen in line with strong year- earlier levels. However, auto dealers in the region reported slowing traffic and sales in recent months, and many have cut back their orders and inventory plans. Housing Survey data and discussions with realtors, homebuilders, banks and lumberyards indicate that home sales continued to strengthen during September and early October. Favorable weather enabled home construction to finish the peak building season at a high level of output. One of the largest realtors in the District reported that sales strengthened significantly in August and September, and noted that "our salespeople are all quite upbeat." Banks reported strong home loan applications and closures; one large bank closed a record number of home loans during September. Apartment rents were reported to be rising at a slightly faster pace this year than earlier in the 1990s; lower vacancy rates have squeezed out incentives, and owners have also passed on increased interest costs under adjustable rate mortgages. Homebuilders' appraisals of current and expected sales activity continued to improve from low second quarter levels. A survey showed homebuilders' responses in the Midwest remained the strongest among the four regions in the nation, and well above year- earlier levels. An association of lumberyards stated that members' requests for association services had dried up in the past month. "If our phones aren't ringing," this contact stated, "then the dealers are busy. Right now, it seems like they're busy from dawn to dusk." Manufacturing District purchasing managers surveys show stronger industrial output in the region in August and September, with little renewed upward pressure on input prices. District steel output rose sharply in September; it fell back slightly during early October, but remained well above year-earlier levels. One steel industry contact stated that demand from auto and appliance producers prompted much of the September increase in output in the region, but demand from construction machinery manufacturers weakened somewhat. Steel production plans for the fourth quarter have increased slightly in recent months, but this contact quickly noted "it's not a boom, mind you." An auto industry analyst stated that fourth quarter auto production schedules imply a substantial increase in assemblies during the fourth quarter. Distributor sales of appliances in the first two weeks of October continued to strengthen relative to year- earlier trends after weakening in the second quarter and into early July. An appliance industry analyst stated that housing activity has proven stronger than expected earlier in 1995, and a large manufacturer expected a modest gain in appliance shipments in 1996. Signs of slowing have arisen within the District's capital goods sector, notably among producers of construction equipment and heavy- duty trucks. A construction equipment industry analyst stated that retail sales in the fourth quarter are expected to be flat to down slightly from last year, as an uptick in activity in August doesn't seem to have followed through into September and October. Sales remain at high levels, and recent strengthening in housing activity is still expected to boost construction equipment sales by the second quarter of 1996. Nonetheless, this analyst characterized manufacturers' current inventory as "high for all types of machinery." Another analyst reported that heavy-duty truck order cancellations have risen sharply in recent months. Order backlogs have declined considerably, albeit from dramatically high levels. Even so, current production schedules imply a small decline in heavy-duty truck output in the fourth quarter, and another trucking industry observer estimated that fleet utilization slipped further in the third quarter on a seasonally adjusted basis. A large manufacturer of locomotives also reported slower new orders in recent months. Labor Markets District labor markets continue to tighten, and reports of wage increases in entry-level positions grew increasingly frequent. Unemployment rates in District states remained at or near their lowest levels in the past two decades. Help-wanted advertising firmed up in the region in the third quarter, climbing back in line with first quarter levels. Initial claims for unemployment insurance in the region declined in recent months relative to year-earlier trends. In the manufacturing sector, the employment components of District purchasing managers' surveys slipped in the second quarter, but firmed up during the third quarter, and remained substantially above their averages for 1990, 1991, and 1992. Manufacturers' hiring plans remained stronger than the overall Midwest average in the latest hiring survey conducted by a large temporary help company, and several manufacturers reported increasing entry-level wages to attract new hires. A temporary help company reported that employers in its market area have increasingly displayed wage rates in help- wanted advertising. An auto supplier reported high and increasing turnover, and expressed concern that at current unemployment rates deer-hunting season could cut into output to a greater extent than usual this year.