Summary Moderate economic growth continued in the early fall in the Twelfth District. Survey respondents noted relatively strong growth in Utah, Oregon, and Nevada, with weaker conditions exhibited in parts of Southern California, Hawaii, and Idaho. Overall, retail sales growth reportedly slowed in recent months, but demand continues to be buoyed by strong business investment. Residential real estate markets are mixed. Manufacturing activity is benefiting from rapid growth in export demand, although sales of some items to Japan are off noticeably. In agricultural markets, the expansion of exports is buffeting some of the effects on profitability from weak yields on certain crops. Labor markets are tight in several states, particularly for skilled, technical, and construction trade workers in fast-growing states. The labor market tightness has translated into only limited upward pressure on total labor costs, however, as increases in benefit costs have slowed and workers reportedly are focusing more on job security than on wages. Business Sentiment Businesses in the District are more optimistic concerning national and regional economic conditions, with 90 percent of respondents now expecting national growth over the next four quarters to match or exceed its long-run average pace, up from a recent low of 65 percent of respondents in June. The majority of respondents expect no substantial change in national unemployment or inflation in the near-term. Respondents' expectations for their regional economies are particularly optimistic, with 58 percent predicting better growth in their region than in the U.S. as a whole. This optimism extends to most major areas of activity, with expected improvements in business investment, consumer spending, housing starts, and international trade in the District. Retail Trade and Services Retail sales in many District states reportedly slowed in recent months. Sales of soft goods in particular have been flat. However, most respondents report relatively low levels of retail inventories prior to the arrival of the holiday season merchandise. Retailers generally are optimistic about the prospects for holiday sales. Among District service-producing industries, tourism continues to be a major source of growth. Increases in German and British tourist traffic were reported in Utah and Southern California. Asian tourism in Hawaii remains at high levels, although Japanese financing of the infrastructure for that industry reportedly is retrenching. Despite some restructuring, health services industries are expanding rapidly in states with strong population gains; in Oregon, for example, demand for primary care physicians is up, though hospital beds remain in excess supply. The demand for commercial legal services also is reported to be expanding in the Pacific Northwest. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity continued to expand in early fall, pushing production near capacity and adding to substantial backlogs. In Nevada and Utah, respondents report that demand for machinery and fabricated metal products increased further. In California, demand for ferrous metal products is also strong. In several District states, rapid growth of domestic electronic equipment sales has been augmented by strong exports to Europe and Asia. However, exports of wood products to Japan reportedly dropped off recently, and overall orders for wood products also are down. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries The effects of poor weather in California earlier this year are still being felt in the agricultural sector, with low yields for some crops, and reportedly low income despite consequent higher prices. Agricultural exports from the California Central Valley, however, are up, as are Washington apple exports. Much of the new export demand comes from Asia (due in part to the lifting of trade restrictions on China and Vietnam) and South America. Export sales of wheat are particularly high. Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate and construction activity remains mixed. In fast-growing states such as Utah, Oregon, and Arizona, building activity is expanding but being constrained somewhat by high wages caused by shortages of qualified help. In Alaska, the development of single-family and multi-family housing projects reportedly picked up. Residential building slowed in Idaho and Washington. Sales of existing homes reportedly remained weak in Southern California, and prices continued to fall; in contrast, sellers in parts of the San Francisco Bay Area reportedly are receiving higher prices. Activity in the non-residential sector reportedly increased in recent months. The commercial real estate market in Oregon and Washington reportedly has heated up enough in recent months to attract investors who had retreated from the market earlier. Further expansion of resort facilities in Nevada has contributed to construction activity there, albeit at a less robust pace than last year. Financial Institutions Banks report favorable conditions in most of the District, with high loan demand, solid balance sheets and earnings, and good credit quality. The exceptions are in Hawaii, where increasing credit problems are reflected in increases in bankruptcies and foreclosures, and in parts of Southern California, where loan demand is low. For California as a whole, banks report flat to moderately growing loan volumes in early fall, with the strength concentrated in commercial and industrial lending.