Overview The Tenth District economy continued to grow at a moderately strong pace during the past month. Retail sales and manufacturing activity remained strong, while energy and homebuilding activity stayed sluggish. Agriculture's income prospects remained weak due to disappointing crops and low cattle prices. Manufacturers continued to report shortages and rising prices for some materials, although wages and retail prices held steady. Retail Sales Most retailers report sales were unchanged from the month before but remained above year-ago levels. Unseasonably warm weather slowed sales of outerwear and seasonal apparel last month, but sales of most other products were steady. Retailers generally expect strong sales during the coming holiday season and have begun their normal seasonal buildup in inventories. Automobile dealers report last month's sales were down slightly from the month before. Most dealers are generally optimistic about sales prospects for the rest of the year, however, as new car models become more widely available. Manufacturing Most manufacturers continued to operate at high levels of capacity during the past month. None of the respondents report production bottlenecks due to capacity constraints, although a few report shortages of skilled labor and some materials. While most manufacturers are satisfied with inventory levels, some are trimming stocks. Energy Activity in the district's energy industry remained sluggish over the past month due to continued low prices for crude oil and natural gas. The average number of drilling rigs operating in the district during the first half of October was about even with the average for the previous two months. Drilling activity in the district remained well below the year-ago level. Housing Most builders report housing starts last month were unchanged from the month before and remained well below year-ago levels. Construction of multifamily homes strengthened somewhat, but single- family construction remained sluggish. Sales of existing homes were also flat and continued to trail the pace of a year ago. Building materials are readily available with no delays, and most builders expect little change in material availability or prices during the remainder of the year. Lenders report strong mortgage demand, which they expect will continue in the months ahead. Banking Loans increased slightly at district banks last month, pushing up loan-deposit ratios. Most bankers report slight gains in commercial and industrial loans, consumer loans, home improvement and home equity loans, and residential and commercial construction loans. Demand for agricultural loans was steady. Security investments generally declined. Most of the respondents report-total deposits were unchanged last month, but changes varied among different types of deposits. Demand deposits declined slightly while MMDAs increased. Large CDs, small time and savings deposits, NOW accounts, IRAs, and Keough accounts held steady. None of the respondent banks changed their prime rate last month, and only one bank expects to lower its prime rate in the near future. A few respondents increased their consumer lending rates slightly, but most respondents expect no further change in the near term. None of the banks report a change in lending standards. Agriculture Dry weather has speeded harvest of the district's corn and soybean crops. Yields are well below normal, though, due to a growing season shortened by late planting and early frost. The recent dry weather has also delayed planting of the winter wheat crop, dampening prospects for next year's harvest. The overall drop in crop production has pushed up prices in recent weeks. The higher prices will boost farm incomes in parts of the district that harvest normal crops but will not fully offset crop losses elsewhere. The rise in crop prices has also pushed up feed costs, worsening the profit outlook for the district cattle industry. With continued large supplies of beef and other meats in prospect, fed-cattle prices are not expected to rise much above break-even levels in the months ahead. As a result, cattle feeders are paying less for young cattle entering their feedlots, pushing down incomes for district cattle ranchers. Despite the recent surge in crop prices, disappointing crops and weak profits in the cattle industry point to little, if any, improvement in district farm incomes in 1995 following last year's sharp decline. Prices and wages Manufacturers continue to report price increases for some raw materials, especially paper, packaging materials, and some kinds of steel. While some manufacturers report shortages of skilled labor, few report upward pressure on wages. Retailers report steady prices with no significant price increases expected in the next few months.