Overview There are numerous signs that Fifth District business activity has slowed in recent weeks. Manufacturers have experienced declines in new orders and order backlogs. Manufacturing employment appears to have softened during September after a period of significant growth. Retail sales, particularly of durable goods, have also weakened. Housing construction continues depressed and sales of houses are very slow in most areas. There remain pockets of strength in commercial and industrial construction, however. Loan demand also seems to have slowed generally. Indications at this time suggest that gross income of most District farmers this year will be well above last year's level. The Manufacturing Sector According to District manufacturers surveyed this month shipments held steady while new orders and order backlogs fell sharply. The performance of inventories was mixed as stocks of materials fell while finished goods on hand were somewhat higher than a month earlier. Inventories generally grew relative to desired levels, however, and now nearly 40 percent of the manufacturers surveyed feel current stocks are excessive. Survey results also suggest a reduction in employment among manufacturing respondents and the first reduction in the average work week in quite some time. Approximately one third of the respondents find current plant and equipment capacity somewhat in excess, but there is virtually no sentiment for altering current expansion plans. Survey responses further suggest, however, that much of the weakness in the manufacturing sector was concentrated in the various consumer goods industries. Responses from such diverse industries as textiles and apparel, furniture, and consumer electronics indicate weakness. On the other hand, the primary metals, chemicals, machinery and equipment, and shipbuilding groups seem to have held their own. Consumer Spending The retail sector also appears to have slumped over the past month. Total sales and relative sales of big ticket items were reported to have declined. Indications are that durable goods accounted for much, although by no means all, of the weakness. Employment by retail respondents was unchanged to down slightly. Inventories at the retail level, exclusive of automobiles, showed little change according to our respondents. Automobile sales continue weak and inventories in that sector remain a problem. Other retail inventories are viewed as somewhat higher than desired. Housing and Construction Residential construction continues very weak in most areas of the District. Inventories of new and previously owned housing are substantial and, according to our Directors, are having the effect of holding the line on sale prices, at least once financing concessions are factored in. There is still evidence that commercial and industrial construction is taking up some of the slack created by the residential sector. In addition, public sector construction is proceeding as planned in most areas, as projects already funded are being pushed to completion. Several of our Directors, however, note an increasing reluctance of state and local governments to begin moving on new projects. Financing costs and rising operating expenses are tending to cap future capital projects. There is some concern about what this portends for construction once projects now in the pipeline are completed. The Financial Sector According to our Directors there has been a noticeable easing of loan demand in recent weeks. Demand for home mortgages has weakened almost across the District. Weakness in consumer installment loan demand has also been widespread. There is increasing evidence of a general softening of business loan demand. Agriculture During the first half of the year. total cash receipts from farm marketings were 13 percent above those in the same period last year, with gains recorded in all states except South Carolina. Crop production prospects as of September 1 were even brighter than they were a month ago, pointing to significant increases over last year in the peanut, cotton, soybean, and corn crops. Marketing of a good quality crop of flue-cured tobacco continues, with the general average price 15 percent above a year ago and the value of gross sales up 21 percent. But of course final crop output is still far from certain, and the improvement in crop prospects nationally has weakened prices.