The Ninth District's economy was lackluster in August and early September, despite some positive developments. The positive developments were good tourist spending, strong oil and gas exploration and production, and good growing weather. But more than offsetting these positive developments were depressed levels of consumer spending on general merchandise, automobiles, and homes; a drop-off in manufacturing orders; cutbacks in output of forest products and mining companies; and weak farm prices. The overall weakness in the district's economy was reflected in a continuing slackness in bank lending. Consumer Spending Consumer spending for most goods and services was sluggish. Three major Minneapolis-St. Paul area retailers, who had reported a modest increase in sales at the time of our last Redbook, indicate that their sales declined slightly between July and early September. Our Bank's directors from outside the Twin Cities also report some letup in general merchandise sales. Home and auto sales have been disappointing as well. According to directors, home sales remain at the depressed levels reported in recent Redbooks. According to regional sales managers for domestic automobile manufacturers, new car sales in late August and early September were still at their depressed levels of June and July. The only positive development, according to directors, is that the late summer tourist and travel business in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, northern Minnesota, and Montana has been good. Industrial Activity and Inventories Industrial activity in the district has generally been slow. In a recent University of Minnesota survey of Minnesota manufacturers, only 36 percent of the respondents indicated increasing orders in August as compared to 46 percent reporting increases late last spring. In addition, 39 percent of the current survey's respondents reported recent inventory increases as compared to 32 percent reporting inventory increases late last spring. Our directors confirm this letup in new orders. A large Twin City manufacturer of building supplies reports that its orders declined more than seasonally in August and early September, and an Upper Peninsula of Michigan director reports layoffs at his area s manufacturing plants because of declining new orders. The depressed forest products and iron mining industries have sunk further into the doldrums. Because of weak demand for building products, one large forest products company recently closed three mills in western Montana. Also, Minnesota's largest Iron Range taconite plant announced in mid-September that it was cutting its output by 40 percent. Energy exploration and production has been the one bright spot in industrial activity. One Montana director, for example, states that 10 to 12 oil leases in his county alone in the last 60 days have provided considerable economic stimulus. Agricultural Conditions Growing conditions have improved since July. Excess moisture was slowing district crop development in July, but recent hot, dry weather has enabled most district crops to catch up. Most crops have now matured enough so that even an early, heavy frost wouldn't damage them, and district farmers are now expecting their corn harvest to be 20 percent larger than last year's drought-depressed crop. To the disappointment of district farmers, however, agricultural prices have dropped. Since July, cash grain and livestock prices at Minneapolis and South St. Paul have either remained the same or declined. Financial Conditions Reflecting the sluggishness in the district's economy, lending at district banks has been slack. Bankers throughout the district indicate that loan demand remains at the weak level reported in earlier Redbooks. They attribute this to the high level of interest rates.