Area business representatives report that economic activity in the Eighth District has remained sluggish and generally unchanged over the past month. Retailers report a mixed pattern of consumer spending. Sales of apparel and other nondurables are up, while sales of household appliances are generally down. Home construction has fallen from the low levels of the previous month. Representatives of financial institutions report no major changes in either loans or deposits from the previous month. Manufacturing activity appears mixed. Area manufacturers of shoes, textiles, carpet, oil-related products and military equipment report strong sales, while sales of building materials, household appliances and primary metals are weak. The outlook for agricultural output in the Eighth District is good. Consumer spending Reports on consumer spending are mixed. Department store representatives report that sales are up from last month, but still below what they had anticipated. Consumer expenditures on major appliances are down. The demand for electronic video recorders and related products was the only strength in an otherwise weak market. However, industry representatives indicate that some of the softness may be seasonal. Auto sales appeared to be strong in August, but some auto dealers reported a significant decrease in sales in the past few weeks. Consumer resistance to high prices and high interest rates was cited as the reason for the recent drop in sales. Construction The number of single-family housing permits issued in the St. Louis metropolitan area declined in August, and is running at about 50 percent of the level of a year ago. Industry experts indicate that this general decline in construction worsened through September, and are forecasting very low levels of construction activity for the last five months of 1981. Nonresidential construction remains fairly strong but has shown some signs of weakening in recent weeks. The switch of insurance company portfolios from debt to equity assets was cited as a possible problem for nonresidential construction. Construction activity elsewhere in the Eighth District appears to be following a similar pattern to that in St. Louis. Financial developments Total loans in the Eighth District have showed marked fluctuations over the past month with no basic trend, although they are down somewhat from their levels of the previous month. Commercial and industrial loans dropped about 1.5 percent in August. Agricultural loan demand has increased in recent weeks, while consumer installment loans remain essentially unchanged. Real estate loans declined somewhat over the last two weeks. S&L officials have indicated a reluctance to make new mortgage loans. S&Ls lending activity appears to be aimed at shortening the maturity of their loan portfolio. Most S&Ls are offering loans at below market interest rates on homes on which they hold the mortgage; however, several S&L officials indicated that even this loan activity is light. Deposits of financial institutions have remained fairly steady over the past month. Area commercial banks report modest increases of demand deposits and a general leveling off in the outflow from passbook accounts. S&Ls report a continued, and perhaps accelerating, outflow from passbook savings. Some S&Ls have been able to offset passbook deposit losses with high interest rate deposits which can be converted to "All-Savers Certificates" at the depositor's option. S&L officials continue to be optimistic about the prospects for "All-Saver Certificates." Manufacturing Manufacturing activity continues to vary greatly from industry to industry. The production of building materials, household appliances and other products particularly sensitive to high interest rates is at relatively low levels. Automobile output in the St. Louis metropolitan area remains sluggish, with no significant change reported in the past month. However, other Eighth District auto plants have reported increased production. Producers of shoes, textiles and carpet report increased sales, while chemicals appear to be steady. The manufacture of oil-related products and military equipment remains strong. Primary metal producers continue to report sluggish sales. One area steel manufacturer has closed shop because customers have failed to honor their commitments. Some manufacturers who reported declining sales over the past month indicated that they continue to be in fairly good shape due to backlogs of orders. Agriculture The agricultural outlook for the Eighth District remains good. Greater than average production is expected for corn, soybean, milo and rice. Crop maturity and harvesting are normal for this time of year. The topsoil moisture is adequate in most areas of the District.