Summary The Tenth District economy is showing signs of weakening, although no clear trend is evident. The primary indicators of slippage are in retail sales and housing, where reports of slowing activity and expressions of concern about the outlook have increased from a few weeks ago. Nevertheless, parts of the Tenth District continue to enjoy very strong economic activity which is primarily energy-related. These differences in business conditions across the District show up clearly in the growth rates of bank deposits and in loan demand. All-savers certificates, bankers also say, will not have any impact on the interest rates they charge. Despite good crops and some improvement in cattle prices, farmers continue to have trouble servicing their debt. Retail Sales Most retailers are satisfied with their current stocks of merchandise, but some are concerned that sales may weaken soon, with a resulting excess of inventories. Retail trade has picked up in some parts of the Tenth District in recent weeks, but slowed in others; sales of new cars and other durable goods continue to be disappointing. Purchasing Agents The aircraft and electronics industry representatives report some difficulties obtaining certain items, but buyers for other industries say supplies are plentiful. Agents report that the prices of industrial inputs average about 7 percent above those of a year ago. Homebuilders and Savings and Loans Sales of new homes continue to be very sluggish. Housing starts are down almost everywhere in the District including the energy-related boom towns. Homebuilders believe that they will not see any improvement in their business until interest rates come down. Current mortgage rates average near 17 percent on adjustable rate loans. Savings and loan institutions expect the all-savers certificates to improve their inflows, which have been deteriorating. Agriculture Cattle producers continue to experience financial difficulties. Cattle feeders who took advantage of recent increases in fed cattle futures prices can anticipate marginal profits. Cow- calf operators appear to be retaining more calves this year than last due to favorable range and pasture conditions. The September Cattle-on-Feed report indicates increased marketings and reduced placements compared to one year ago, which should mean continued strength in fed cattle prices during coming months. An expected record corn crop should keep feed costs down and improve profit margins. The financial position of hog producers appears to be holding steady according to District bankers. The September Hogs- and-Pigs report suggests a larger supply of pork during autumn months than had been expected, so some moderating in hog prices may result. Crop condition reports from District bankers are consistent with USDA estimates of a record corn crop and near record soybean crop. Because of late plantings, both corn and soybeans are still susceptible to a hard, early frost in some areas. Due to the depressing effect of large crop supplies on market prices, more farmers are expected to participate in government grain reserve programs this year. Financial Developments Reports on loan demand at Tenth District banks are mixed this month. Banks in areas where economic activity is robust due to energy-related investment spending report strong demand for commercial and industrial, commercial construction, and consumer loans. Banks in other areas of the Tenth District report flat-to-weaker growth in these loan categories. Agricultural and residential real estate loan demand remains weak. Prime lending rates, which range from 19 to 20 1/2 percent, have declined 25 to 100 basis points in recent weeks. Deposit growth has increased moderately in areas of the Tenth District affected by energy-related investment spending and has been flat in other parts of the District. In all areas of the Tenth District, growth in deposits is concentrated in large CD's and money market and small saver certificates; little or no growth is occurring in other deposit categories. A few banks are paying less than the ceiling rate on small saver certificates. The majority of bankers do not expect the volume of all-savers certificates to be substantial. They think the bulk of these funds will come from current deposits, especially money market certificates. Bank respondents expect the all-saver certificates to marginally decrease their aggregate cost of funds, and to have almost no impact on lending rates, including mortgage rates.