Summary Economic activity in the Seventh District shows no signs of the revival that had been hoped for by this time. Orders for capital goods have slowed further. Inventories are being held at low levels, and reduced further. Retail sales of general merchandise slipped back in recent weeks. Employment prospects are bleak, but compensation continues to rise rapidly. The housing market dropped even lower in late summer. Excellent crop forecasts reduce farm income prospects. Financial markets are strained, but credit is available to qualified borrowers. Some important district companies are experiencing severe financial problems. Despite the generally gloomy outlook, we do not detect signs of a sudden sharp drop in total activity such as occurred in the fall of 1974 and the spring of 1980. The tax act District executives are carefully examining the complicated Economic Recovery Tax Act to determine how it might affect demand for their products and their own investment plans. Faster depreciation, liberalized investment tax credits, and other tax reductions are expected to have a distinct positive impact on the demand for capital goods, but only after some easing of credit terms and clarification of uncertainties, here and abroad. Attitudes Surveys and public statements indicate that confidence of consumers, businessmen, farmers, and lenders eroded in the third quarter. For many this reflects a failure of the upturn to appear as predicted rather than a sharp decline in income and sales. Companies in trouble Some large district corporations are hard- pressed financially. Facilities are being closed or offered for sale, work staffs are being trimmed, payments delayed, and debts restructured. Capital expenditures Order backlogs of most capital goods producers are declining and further cuts in output are probable. Order cancellations have become more common. Included are equipment for agriculture, construction, railroads, trucklines, and various factory facilities. The motor industry has deferred various large projects for new products. A large nuclear power plant has been canceled and construction of other power plants is in doubt. On the other hand, some well-financed capital goods producers are going ahead on schedule with programs for new products. Inflation Price discounting is reported for building materials, metals, gasoline, and some capital goods. However, most district companies are paying higher prices on average each month. Prices that are depressed currently could recover lost ground rapidly if demand strengthened. Inventories Stocks of steel, non-ferrous metals, building materials and various equipment components are below comfortable working levels. Nevertheless, an "inventory squeeze" is in progress under pressure from financial executives who wish to improve year-end balance sheets and reduce borrowing costs. Fortunately, low inventories reduce the chances of a cumulative recession, and improve prospects for an upturn after the turn of the year. Employment District employment continues to lag the national performance. New layoffs have been announced in various industries, but the real problem is reduced hiring by both industry and government. Compensation Increases in compensation in the district have averaged close to 10 percent this year, despite substantial unemployment. Most employers are budgeting similar increases for 1982. Some compensation increases have been much larger. Construction equipment operators recently accepted a 14 percent first-year increase after a long strike. Truckers and the steel and auto firms are pressing hard to moderate increases in compensation, especially COLA clauses, but strong union resistance is certain. Consumer purchases General merchandise retailers report that sales weakened in the summer after showing strength in the spring. Weakness is "across-the-board", but has been most pronounced in big ticket items including appliances and furniture. Motor vehicles Sales of cars were stimulated artificially in August and early September by rebates and interest subsidies. Although inventories were reduced significantly, production schedules for both cars and trucks for the fourth quarter have been cut. Steel Demand for steel has ebbed and, shipment estimates have been reduced. The main cause is lower demand from the auto industry, but inventory reductions are in progress in most industries. Leadtimes are very short. Housing Sales of both new and used housing have sunk to an extremely low level. Many builders and subcontractors have gone out of business and others are expected to follow. Most builders are building only to order, and orders are few. An unusually high proportion of mortgage loan applications are being rejected because potential borrowers are unable to meet credit standards. The housing slump is expected to continue into next year. Nonresidential construction Most heavy construction in the Chicago area was halted by an equipment operators' strike that began July 20 and lasted eight weeks. Many projects will be pushed ahead with long hours at overtime to make as much progress as possible before bad weather hampers operations. Contract data suggests a decline in nonresidential construction next year. Agriculture Abundant summer rains raised estimates of yields on principal crops. With the exception of Indiana, prospects for the district are especially good. Corn output in the district is expected to set a new record while soybeans are likely to match the 1979 record. Depressed crop prices suggest very low earning for farmers for the second year in a row and analysts do not expect a significant improvement next year. This means continued depressed sales of equipment and other items to farmers. Financial Extremely high interest rates continued to dampen activity in most sectors. But credit remains available to borrowers who can meet strict standards, in contrast to the situation in the spring of 1980. Hopes for an early, substantial decline in interest rates are fading. Local analysts complain that credit demands of the federal government and the energy sector crowd out many other borrowers. The new "All Savers" certificates are being promoted actively, but little benefit for housing is expected. A decline of three or four points in long-term rates, we are told, would stimulate a surge of demand for funds for home mortgages, corporations and municipalities.