The Eleventh District economy expanded at a moderate pace over the past six   weeks. Activity in the energy sector remained strong, and staffing firms   reported continued high demand for their services. Reports from the   manufacturing and non-financial service sectors were mostly positive. Loan   demand increased slightly. Conditions improved somewhat in the commercial real   estate sector, while activity in the housing market remained sluggish. Severe   winter weather stressed crops and ranching conditions and dampened retail   sales.
The price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil fell from $90 per barrel   in January to about $86 in early February. Despite severe winter weather across   much of the country, natural gas prices remained weak. Most petrochemical prices   held steady during the reporting period, with the exception of increases in   polypropylene and polystyrene prices.
High-tech manufacturers reported that growth in orders and sales picked up   slightly. Demand was particularly strong from Asia and for products such as   smart phones and other hand-held devices. Inventories were at or near desired   levels. Most respondents expect demand to continue to increase at the current   rate or at a slightly faster pace over the next six months.
Overall conditions in the paper products sector were largely unchanged since   the last report. Aviation and aircraft parts manufacturers reported continued   solid demand, and outlooks are for moderate growth over the next few months.   Sales of emergency vehicles picked up and demand is stronger than year-ago   levels, according to contacts. Demand for food products improved over the past   month, and the three-month outlook for sales was optimistic.
Domestic demand for petrochemicals was stable or rose moderately, and margins   were robust during the reporting period. Growth in exports of polyethylene and   polypropylene slowed, while exports of caustic soda stayed strong. Domestic   orders for PVC used in residential and commercial construction remained weak,   but exports were solid according to contacts.
Demand for automobiles held steady, apart from severe winter weather that   significantly reduced sales in early February. Demand is gradually picking up as   business and consumer confidence improves. One contact noted that most of the   improvement has been at the retail level and fleet sales have lagged. Dealer   inventories are being kept in line with the pace of sales. Contacts remain   modestly optimistic and expect sales to rise moderately this year.
Demand for accounting services has improved since the last report. One large   firm noted that activity is strengthening across all service lines, particularly   for consulting and transactional work. Despite the recent improvement in   business, pricing remains competitive. Demand for legal services has picked up,   and contacts expect reasonable growth in activity this year.
Reports from transportation services contacts were mixed, but mostly   positive. Intermodal transportation firms noted cargo volumes declined due to   weaker demand from international clients. Growth in small parcel shipments   improved during the reporting period, and volumes were above year-ago levels.   Railroad shipments and container trade volumes increased moderately since the   last report. Airline traffic was steady over the past six weeks. Contacts noted   that demand has improved from a year ago, particularly for business travel, and   the outlook is for modest growth in sales in the near term.
Commercial real estate activity improved slightly since the last report.   Contacts said that while the sector remains fragile, there are signs that a   recovery is beginning to take place. Office and industrial leasing rental demand   edged up and contacts noted several deals in the works in Texas, with high-tech   and energy-related firms leading the expansion. Commercial property sales   remained at low levels, but some contacts noted a pickup in investor interest.   Nonresidential construction remained subdued since the last report, and contacts   do not expect a significant turnaround in the near term.
