Business activity in the Third District has improved overall since the last   Beige Book. Manufacturers reported strong increases in shipments and new orders   in February. Retailers achieved modest year-over-year increases in sales in   January and February. Motor vehicle dealers also reported year-over-year sales   increases in February. Third District banks reported little overall change in   loan volume outstanding since the last Beige Book, although business loan and   residential mortgage volumes edged up, while consumer loan volume eased.   Residential real estate agents and homebuilders indicated that activity, which   was already at a seasonal low along a low part of the business cycle, was   dampened further by poor weather. Contacts in the commercial real estate sector   said that leasing and construction activity have remained at low levels since   the last Beige Book. Service-sector firms reported that activity has increased   modestly. Business contacts reported still more instances of price increases for   inputs than they did in the previous Beige Book, and output price increases   emerged in February as reported by contacts in several sectors.
The outlook among Third District business contacts is positive but not   strong. Manufacturers forecast a rise in shipments and orders during the next   six months. Retailers expect sales to increase moderately on a year-over-year   basis. Bankers expect only slight growth in lending over the next two quarters.   Contacts in residential real estate expect little or no increase in activity for   the year as a whole. Contacts in commercial real estate expect market conditions   to improve slowly during the year. Service-sector companies expect continued   slow growth through the first half of 2011.
Third District auto dealers contacted in February reported that sales were   above the year-ago level and rising gradually from the January level. Dealers   generally considered their inventories to be in line with near-term sales   expectations. Dealers anticipate sales this year to exceed sales last year,   although some remained concerned that further increases in gasoline prices could   limit the improvement in sales.
There has been little change in commercial and industrial markets in the   Third District since the previous Beige Book, according to area nonresidential   real estate firms. Contacts said that vacancy rates and rents have been nearly   steady for most property types, although vacancy rates for apartment buildings   have been moving down. Contacts in some parts of the District also reported some   slight gains in occupancy of industrial buildings. Construction activity has   been roughly steady at a slow pace. Looking ahead, commercial real estate   contacts expect market conditions to improve slowly during the rest of the year,   with increases in construction and occupied space held back by restrained   financing and slow employment growth in the region. One contact said, "It will   probably take some office markets several years to recover the loss of occupancy   caused by the recession."
Business firms in the region reported mostly steady wages since the last   Beige Book, although some said they have raised wages and salaries for certain   skilled occupations. Employment agencies said there has been some growth in   demand for workers recently, and some colleges in the region reported that more   companies plan to recruit on campus this year than last year.
