According to reports from Sixth District business contacts, economic   conditions continued to improve at a modest pace in January and early February.   Most retailers contacted stated that adverse weather had affected the positive   sales trend seen at the end of last year. The hospitality industry experienced   moderate growth as hotel occupancy and bookings increased, most notably in   Florida. Weakness persisted throughout the District in both residential and   commercial real estate. Manufacturers cited growth in new orders along with   plans to increase production in the near term. Transportation firms remarked   that freight shipments remained stable. Credit conditions improved for segments   not related to residential construction and real estate. Labor markets continued   to recover at a slow rate, with most businesses maintaining a preference for   hiring temporary rather than permanent employees. Some businesses indicated   limited plans to pass costs through to consumers in an effort to increase their   margins from unusually low levels, recognizing that they may have to reverse   course if there is significant buyer push-back.
Overall, leisure and business travel increased moderately compared with the   previous year. Hotel occupancy and convention bookings were up slightly in many   locations despite adverse weather conditions. The strongest gains were reported   in Florida, where international visitors increased noticeably. Cruise activity   remained healthy as well. Restaurants also noted a modest increase in business   as the economy and consumer confidence improved. The outlook among District   hospitality contacts for the upcoming months continued to be positive.
Residential brokers in the District indicated that existing home sales   remained at low levels in January and early February. However, brokers noted   that sales exceeded the year earlier level, largely driven by gains in Florida.   Outside of Florida, some contacts suggested that adverse weather had dampened   sales. Brokers continued to notice downward pressure on home prices from   short-sales, REO's, and pending foreclosures. The outlook for sales growth over   the next several months improved from previous reports, but total sales are   expected to remain low.
Nonresidential construction activity remained at low levels during January   and early February. Most commercial contractors said that the environment was   little changed since the end of last year. The majority of contacts expect   construction activity to remain at low levels this year.
Some firms reported plans to pass more of input cost increases through to   their consumers as they try to restore margins from unusually low levels.   However, most indicated that markups remained below what they considered to be   normal. A majority of businesses anticipate rising materials and benefits costs   over the next year. A number of contacts, particularly those in manufacturing,   noted some concern about the impact of rising commodity prices.
Most areas of the District continued to be affected by varying degrees of   drought. Cold temperatures negatively affected many vegetable crops in Florida.   The outlook for the region's key agricultural commodities - including poultry,   cotton, and soybeans – has been brightened by higher prices driven by strong   global demand and tight supplies.
