Economic activity in the Twelfth District posted further gains during the   reporting period of mid-January through mid-February. Despite notable price   increases for assorted raw materials and commodities, overall price pressures   for final goods and services remained modest, as did wage gains. Sales of retail   items and services expanded relative to seasonal norms. District manufacturing   activity continued to grow at a solid pace overall. Agricultural producers   reported robust sales, and providers of energy resources continued to expand on   net. Activity in District housing markets remained very subdued, and demand for   commercial real estate stayed weak overall. Reports from District banking   contacts indicated modest increases in loan demand and increased interest in   lending to smaller businesses.
Upward wage pressures generally were quite modest, held down by high   unemployment and limited demand for new employees in most sectors. Scattered   reports pointed to continued downward wage pressures, but contacts more   generally reported modest planned wage increases for 2011, in the aftermath of   widespread wage freezes over the past few years. Wage gains remained most   pronounced for workers with specialized technical skills, especially in   information technology fields.
Demand for consumer and business services improved further overall. Sales   rose significantly for providers of technology services, spurred in part by   rising demand for digital media services used for mobile communication devices.   Demand for transportation services continued to expand, and suppliers of energy   services reported additional growth in deliveries to households and businesses.   Customer traffic rose further for restaurants and other food-service providers.   Contacts noted ongoing improvements in business travel and tourism activity. By   contrast, demand remained largely flat for providers of health-care services and   also professional services, such as law and accounting.
