The Second District's economy appears to have expanded at a modest pace since   the previous report. Business contacts in most industries report stable to   improving conditions and express widespread optimism about the near-term   outlook. Labor market conditions have been mixed but generally steady, on   balance: T here has been little or no net hiring in the financial and   manufacturing sectors, but a slight pickup in some other sectors. Retail sales   are characterized as relatively strong in early 2011, despite inclement weather,   and consumer confidence has continued to improve. However, tourism activity has   shown signs of slowing by more than the seasonal norm in early 2011. Commercial   real estate markets remain fairly slack: The market for office space has been   generally stable, while the market for industrial space has softened somewhat.   Housing markets have been mostly stable, with scattered signs of improvement.   Finally, bankers report strengthening demand for commercial loans and mortgages   but weaker demand for home mortgage loans; they also indicate little change in   credit standards and steady to lower delinquency rates.
Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales of new vehicles continued   to trend upwards in early 2011, as lean inventories of used cars have nudged up   prices and spurred demand for new models. Dealers in the Rochester and Buffalo   areas report that sales of new autos were up 10-20 percent from a year ago in   January, with reports of particular strength for domestic brands. Both retail   and wholesale credit conditions continued to improve. Service departments also   report fairly brisk business, aside from a brief slow patch in early January.   One industry contact notes that a recent auto show in western New York State   drew strong traffic. Dealers are generally optimistic about the sales outlook   for 2011.
Confidence surveys suggest that consumers are in somewhat better spirits.   Siena College's survey of New York State residents shows confidence surging to   its highest level since 2007, with good gains both upstate and downstate. The   Conference Board reports that consumer confidence among residents of the Middle   Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) edged down from a 3-year high in January but   remains near the upper end of its recent range.
On a less positive note, tourism activity in New York City registered more   than a normal seasonal slowdown since the beginning of the year, though the   overall level of activity remains fairly high. Occupancy rates at Manhattan   hotels in January were somewhat lower than a year earlier, while revenues held   steady, reflecting moderate increases in room rates. In the first half of   February, however, revenues have been running a bit lower than comparable 2010   levels--if this persists for the full month, it would be the first 12-month   decline in revenues since 2009. Broadway theaters report that, after a brisk   December and early January, both attendance and total revenues tapered off   noticeably around mid January and have been running roughly 10 percent lower   than a year earlier over the past few weeks--in part because a number of shows   have closed.
Commercial real estate markets generally remain slack--the market for office   space has been mixed but mostly stable in recent weeks, while the industrial   market has shown further signs of softening. In New York City, office leasing   activity has remained fairly brisk, but this has been more than offset by   additional space coming onto the market; as a result, vacancy rates edged up in   January. Asking rents on Class A properties did edge up in January but were   still down nearly 10 percent from a year earlier. Elsewhere across the region,   office vacancy rates edged down in northern New Jersey and across much of   upstate New York but rose modestly in Long Island and in Westchester and   Fairfield Counties. Industrial markets showed further signs of softening across   much of the District. Long Island's industrial vacancy rate rose to its highest   level in more than a decade, and rents drifted down. In northern New Jersey,   industrial vacancy rates held steady, but rents slipped to multi-year lows.   Across upstate New York and in Fairfield County, vacancy rates and rents were   little changed.
