On balance, economic activity in the Fourth District continued to expand at a   modest pace. Manufacturers reported some improvement in new orders and   production. Information received from retailers and auto dealers on the   post-holiday shopping season was generally positive. Energy production and   freight transport volume were stable. Residential and nonresidential   construction remained sluggish. And while demand for business loans showed some   signs of a pickup, consumer borrowing was weak.
Rising payrolls were limited to the manufacturing and retailing sectors.   Staffing-firm representatives noted some growth in the number of new job   openings, with vacancies concentrated in health care, manufacturing, and   professional business services. Wage pressures continue to be contained. Reports   of increasing prices for commodities and steel were widespread. As a result,   manufacturers and retailers felt mounting pressure to pass through some of their   rising input costs to their customers.
A majority of our contacts indicated that capacity utilization rates continue   to trend higher. Inventories remain close to targeted levels. The number of   manufacturers who expect to increase capital spending during 2011 has increased   significantly since our last report. Reasons for the increase include stronger   cash flows and a willingness to go ahead with projects that had been postponed   during 2010. Prices for metal and agricultural commodities and steel increased,   while the cost of most other raw materials has been relatively stable. Many of   our contacts reported passing rising input prices through to their customers.   Most manufacturers said that they have expanded their payrolls slightly since   our last survey, and they expect to continue hiring at the same pace in the near   term. Wage pressures are contained. Companies continue to reverse wage/salary   cuts and restore payments to 401K plans.
Discussions with nonresidential builders drew mixed responses, with a   majority of our contacts reporting weaker activity than a year ago. However, the   number of inquiries has picked up modestly since our last report. Backlogs   remain reasonably healthy, though two builders noted that their backlogs are   being depleted at a rapid pace. Half of our contacts do not expect any near term   improvement in business conditions, while others are much more positive. One   builder noted that he is beginning to notice a sense of urgency to expand on the   part of some of his industrial customers. We heard widespread reports of   increased prices for building materials, with most contractors expecting   continued upward pressure. These price increases are eroding already narrow   margins. Two general contractors noted that they reduced payrolls and may lay   off additional employees if business does not improve. Subcontractors continue   to cope with very difficult industry conditions.
Most auto dealers reported that new vehicle purchases dropped slightly in   January when compared with December levels, while on a year-over-year basis,   vehicle purchases rose moderately. Looking forward, dealers expect 2011 sales   trends to improve over those seen last year. A few of our contacts noted an   increase in leasing activity. Reports on new car inventories were mixed. Used   vehicle inventories are somewhat lean, with upward pressure on prices. We heard   two reports about banks beginning to loosen credit requirements for vehicle   purchases. Dealers are waiting for more details from automakers before   committing to capital investments in their facilities, with some dealers   reporting that they are better prepared financially to make these investments.   Little change in staffing levels is expected during the next few months.
