Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and based   on information collected on or before February 18, 2011. This document   summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside the   Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve   officials.
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that overall   economic activity continued to expand at a modest to moderate pace in January   and early February. Both Kansas City and San Francisco noted that their   economies expanded further. Boston and Philadelphia cited conditions as   improving. New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, and St. Louis described   activity as modestly improving, while Minneapolis and Dallas experienced   moderate growth. Chicago reported that although there was an increase in   activity, it was at a pace not quite as strong as during the previous reporting   period.
Retail sales increased in all Districts, except Richmond and Atlanta,   although Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Kansas City noted that   severe snowstorms had a negative impact on merchant activity. Retail inventory   levels were described as desirable in New York, Cleveland, Dallas, and San   Francisco. Tourism improved in Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, while New   York and Kansas City noted a slowdown in activity as hotel occupancy rates   declined. Some Districts reported a slight increase in the level of residential   real estate activity, although all Districts maintained that the overall level   of home sales and construction remained low. Several Districts indicated   improvements in commercial real estate sales and leasing activity, including   Boston, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. Most reports   characterized nonresidential construction as weak.
All Districts, except St. Louis, experienced solid growth in manufacturing   production, and new orders improved for Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas   City, and San Francisco. Most regions observed an increase in nonfinancial   services. Boston, Philadelphia, and San Francisco reported that sales advanced   for services related to information technology, while Kansas City noted softer   sales of IT services.
Changes in loan demand were mixed across Districts,   with Richmond, Dallas, and San Francisco experiencing increased loan demand and   Kansas City noting a decrease. Lending standards remained tight across most   Districts. Labor markets modestly improved across the country. Boston, Richmond,   and Chicago reported more permanent job placements occurring in the market,   while Atlanta businesses reported a continued preference for hiring temporary   workers rather than permanent workers. Several Districts described an increase   in demand for staffing services, especially for high-skilled IT positions.   Adverse weather conditions continued to hamper agricultural production in many   Districts, but strong prices helped producers of cotton, corn, soybeans, wheat,   poultry, hogs and cattle. Energy production expanded or remained stable,   according to reporting Districts.
Non-wage input costs increased for manufacturers and retailers in most   Districts. Manufacturers, in a number of Districts reported having greater   ability to pass through higher input costs to customers. Retailers in some   Districts mentioned they had implemented price increases or were anticipating   such action in the next few months. Homebuilders in Cleveland and Atlanta had   limited ability to pass through cost increases to buyers. Most reporting   Districts noted continued strong agricultural commodity prices. Wage pressures   remained minimal across all Districts; although Philadelphia, Dallas, and San   Francisco noted that most wage increases were for workers with specialized   skills.
Automobile sales increased compared with a year earlier in most Districts.   Chicago and Dallas observed that auto sales held steady, while Kansas City's   contacts said sales softened because of inclement weather but expected them to   rebound in the near future. Cleveland and Chicago noted increased availability   of auto financing, and Cleveland reported an increase in leasing activity.   Philadelphia, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas indicated that vehicle   inventories were at appropriate levels for the current sales rate, while   inventories were mixed in Cleveland and lean in New York and San Francisco. All   Districts conveyed optimistic outlooks among their auto contacts.
Tourism reports improved in the Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco   Districts. Atlanta observed a strong increase in international visitors. Kansas   City noted a slowdown in tourism amid severe weather but added that ski resorts   benefited from the snowfall. New York reported a larger-than-usual seasonal   slowdown in tourism with decreases in hotel occupancy rates and Broadway theater   attendance, although the level of activity remained fairly high.
Commercial real estate activity showed signs of gaining traction according to   a number of District reports. Boston, Chicago and Dallas reported that   commercial real estate activity improved overall, while Richmond, Kansas City,   and San Francisco noted increases in leasing activity. Kansas City described the   market as stabilizing, while Philadelphia and Minneapolis reported that markets   were flat overall, and New York described conditions as "slack" and St. Louis as   "soft." Nonresidential construction remained weak according to most accounts.   The Boston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas Districts   reported weak levels of construction activity, while Chicago noted a slight   pickup. Cleveland District contractors cited increasing inquiries, and   unexpected growth in commercial construction was noted in the Minneapolis   District. Overall, contacts anticipate a slow recovery in commercial real estate   markets.
Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco reported more   rapid improvement in factory orders. Chicago cited steel, automotive, and heavy   equipment manufacturing as sources for significant new orders growth, while   Dallas noted that orders for high-tech goods had accelerated. Philadelphia and   Atlanta suggested that increases in orders were more broad-based. Cleveland and   Richmond observed that orders were increasing at the same pace as in their   previous report. Demand from abroad, particularly Asia, was cited by several   Districts as a driving force in new orders.
Transportation services firms in the Cleveland, Atlanta, and Kansas City   Districts reported an increase in shipments. Cleveland contacts hinted at the   possibility of hiring more drivers but also expressed concern over the   tightening of the labor pool. Transportation firms in several Districts   expressed concerns over rising fuel costs.
Most Districts reported that credit standards were unchanged to tighter.   Kansas City reported standards were unchanged for all types of loans. New York   noted some tightening of commercial loan standards but little change in the   standards for residential mortgages or consumer loans. The Atlanta District   reported increased standards for residential mortgage loans. St. Louis indicated   standards had tightened somewhat for commercial mortgages, but were unchanged   for C&I loans, and were unchanged to somewhat tighter for residential   mortgages. San Francisco noted relatively restrictive standards for both   consumer and commercial loans.
Community bankers in the Chicago and Dallas Districts cited increased   competition for C&I lending from large banks. Atlanta noted improvements in   credit conditions for all loan segments except those related to residential   construction and real estate. Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, and   Dallas indicated steady to improving credit quality, and New York reported   steady to lower delinquency rates. San Francisco reported that venture capital   financing was improving with increased investor interest and IPO activity.
Energy activity expanded or remained stable since the last report. Kansas   City and Dallas noted strong drilling activity, while Cleveland and Atlanta   reported a decline in permit issuance. In the Atlanta District, drilling   activity remained below pre-Gulf of Mexico oil spill levels, although up   slightly since October 2010. Coal production remained above year-ago levels in   the St. Louis and Kansas City Districts and held steady according to Cleveland.   Kansas City reported that oil and gas production increased, while Cleveland   noted that production held steady. San Francisco reported that global demand   supported oil extraction, while Minneapolis experienced stable oil   exploration.
Labor market conditions continued to strengthen modestly, with all Districts   reporting some degree of improvement. The Boston, Cleveland, Minneapolis, and   Dallas Districts cited noticeable improvements in the manufacturing sector, and   the Boston and Cleveland Districts also observed increased labor demand in the   healthcare and medical sectors. New York reported little or no hiring in the   manufacturing sector, although their factory contacts planned on increasing   hiring in the coming months. The Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond,   Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas Districts received optimistic reports from staffing   agencies. Dallas said that staffing firms experienced continued strong demand,   particularly for high-skilled IT positions. The Cleveland District staffing   contacts noted some growth in the number of new job openings, with vacancies   concentrated in healthcare, manufacturing, and professional business services.   Chicago reported that a large staffing firm reported solid growth in billable   hours for both industrial and for office and clerical positions, as well as   increases in both temporary-to-permanent job transitions and direct hiring of   permanent employees. Boston, Richmond, and Chicago noted increases in the   conversion of temporary to permanent hires and permanent job placements, while   contacts in the Atlanta District reported a preference for hiring temporary   staff. Employers in the Boston District reported difficulty in finding qualified   candidates for high-skilled jobs. Despite the improvement in most labor markets,   some Districts such as New York, St. Louis, Minneapolis and Dallas also noted   layoffs in the region.
