The Ninth District economy continued to grow moderately since the last   report. Increases were noted in consumer spending, services, manufacturing and   agriculture, while energy and mining were stable at high levels. Commercial   construction showed a slight but surprising increase in activity. Tourism and   commercial real estate were level, and residential construction and real estate   decreased. Labor markets continued to strengthen moderately, and wage increases   were modest. While increases in prices for final goods and services remained   relatively subdued, a number of input price increases were noted.
Overall winter tourism activity was on par with last year. A Minnesota travel   company noted that leisure travel to warm weather destinations was up   substantially from a year ago; however, another Minnesota travel company   reported only modest gains in winter activity. Winter tourism was about the same   as last year in western South Dakota. A tourism official in the Upper Peninsula   of Michigan described activity there as soft.
Commercial real estate markets were flat overall. In Minneapolis-St. Paul,   office vacancy remained high, but the market saw slight positive absorption in   the second half of 2010. Retail vacancy declined, and the medical market was   flat, while industrial space saw its highest vacancy rates in more than 10   years. Contacts in Fargo, N.D., and Billings, Mont., reported that commercial   real estate markets there were stable. Residential real estate activity   decreased. January closed sales increased 10 percent in Minneapolis-St. Paul   from a year earlier, but the median sales price fell 10 percent. Home prices   increased in parts of eastern Montana last year, but luxury- and tourism-driven   markets in the western part of the state remained very weak.
Wage increases were modest. Bank directors noted just a few examples of wage   increases across a number of industries. However, some manufacturers in South   Dakota noted recent increases in wage pressures.
While increases in prices for final goods and services remained relatively   subdued, a number of input price increases were noted. According to the   Minneapolis Fed's ad hoc survey, 30 percent of respondents indicated that they   raised prices for final goods and services since the start of the year, while 47   percent noted that nonlabor input prices increased. A bank director reported   that farmers and ranchers were facing higher costs for fertilizer, feed, fuel   and chemicals compared with a year ago. Prices for copper, aluminum and some   steel products increased since the last report. Food commodity prices also   recently rose; however, some food companies in the District reported difficulty   passing these increases through to retail prices.
