Overview According to contacts around the District, business activity in the Southeast continued to expand through the end of 1994, although more slowly than earlier in the year. Most retailers reported that the holiday shopping season went well. Sales generally met expectations, but many contacts had to use more discounting than they would have liked in order to generate business. Auto sales were reported as steady. Tourism and business travel contacts say activity remains above year-ago levels in most of the District; however, parts of the Florida tourism industry have not yet fully recovered from their year-long slowdown. Single-family home building and sales have continued to slow, and most contacts expect a moderately slower 1995. On the other hand, commercial real estate market reports continue to improve. District wages and prices were generally steady; however, there were an increasing number of reports of tight labor markets and higher materials prices. Consumer Spending District retailers reported that sales in December met or exceeded their expectations; however, retailers attributed much of their success to aggressive promotions. Several merchants stated that unseasonably warm weather held sales down a bit. Once again, men's apparel and home products were strong sellers and several retailers noted substantial improvements in women's apparel over last year. Retailers said after-holiday inventories were, for the most part, at anticipated levels. Most contacts expect year-over-year sales gains to continue, although same are concerned that the credit card debt incurred during December will curtail consumers' purchases more than usual during the first quarter of 1995. Manufacturing District manufacturers reported ongoing spotty growth in December and early January. Strength in orders for paper, pulp, metals, and industrial chemicals is keeping plants in these industries operating near capacity. Auto parts suppliers continue to announce construction of new production facilities in the region. Some producers of electronics for cable television and data communications report order backlogs increasing at double-digit rates. Producers of home textiles such as sheets and towels are optimistic that business will remain strong. However, respondents note that the market has softened for other products linked to housing such as building products and heating and air-conditioning equipment. Contacts in the apparel industry continue to report a shrinking factory workweek and payrolls. Temporary help firms supplying personnel for manufacturers report that the pace of placements remains brisk. Foreign orders for military aircraft have brightened the outlook for Lockheed's Marietta, Georgia, facility. However, recent cancellations or scalebacks of U.S. Department of Defense contracts continue to adversely affect many defense-related firms in the District. The recent peso devaluation has some regional manufacturers concerned that exports of their products will slow as U.S.-made products become more expensive in Mexico. A broad range of regional industries has posted significant gains in exports to Mexico since NAFTA was enacted last January. Most industrial contacts remain optimistic about the near-term outlook. Tourism and Business Travel Winter bookings and occupancies are up for some Florida destinations; however, state officials are concerned that rival destinations are capturing a significant portion of the state's marks. Weak early winter cruise bookings are expected to pick up in February following an unusually soft fall season, partly attributed to unseasonable weather. Although overall casino traffic in Mississippi continues to grow and larger firms continue to expand, contacts report that weaker firms are laying off employees or filing for bankruptcy. Interest in the 1996 Olympic Games is sharply increasing foreign visits to Atlanta. Construction A majority of real estate contacts reported that single-family home sales and construction slowed slightly in December. However, contacts in the Miami and Nashville markets stated that December sales exceeded year-ago levels. Most real estate agents and builders continue to anticipate a modest decline in home sales and construction in 1995. Commercial and multifamily real estate contacts continue to report improving market conditions. The apartment market is characterized by steadily rising rental rates and high occupancy levels. Contacts say that, as a result, multifamily construction is on the rise in many areas of the District. Commercial realtors also report declining vacancy rates and steadily increasing rental rates. While commercial construction is reportedly accelerating, the majority of current construction is build-to-suit with most of the space leased prior to building, leaving very little speculative space available. However, builders say that shortages of skilled labor continue to push building costs up. Realtors anticipate both commercial and multifamily markets will exhibit continued strong growth in 1995. Financial Services According to District bankers, overall loan demand has been rising modestly. Most contacts reported that business loan demand was up, while consumer loan demand was slightly off. Commercial real estate lending was reported to be fairly active by several contacts. Weakness in consumer loan demand was accounted for mainly by auto lending. Residential mortgage lending has declined. Commercial and consumer default rates remain low. Wages and Prices Reports of upward pressures on wages are becoming more frequent among contacts surveyed. Demand in the areas of skilled construction and food services personnel is especially strong in parts of the District. Manufacturers report that prices of raw materials continue to escalate, and more producers expect to be able to increase final product prices. Paper, chemicals, metals, and textile contacts continue to report rising raw materials prices. Apparel and fabric producers are coming under increasing pressure from raw materials price increases, but are reportedly not able to raise finished product prices because of consumer bargain hunting pressures at the retail level. A few companies report that higher than usual inventories at the end of 1994 are designed to help offset anticipated additional price increases in 1995. Residential homebuilders throughout the District report that both materials and labor costs have stabilized, generally steadying home prices.