Overview Economic activity in the Fifth District grew moderately in late November and December. Areas experiencing growth included the service-producing sector, state revenues, and agriculture. Strong holiday sales boosted consumer spending. Port trends were mixed, and manufacturing and commercial real estate activity were flat. Loan demand, home sales, and tourist activity declined. Consumer Spending Retail associations and retail analysts contacted by telephone reported that Christmas sales increased between 8 percent and 12 percent from last year's level and that after-Christmas sales were good. They also said that retailers offered fewer after-Christmas discounts than they did last year. Analysts' outlooks for early 1995 sales were mixed. Those expecting weaker sales compared to 1994 pointed to higher consumer debt levels, while those expecting stronger sales pointed to last year's unusually harsh weather that kept shoppers at home. Service-Producing Firms Preliminary results from a mail survey indicated that activity in the service-producing sector increased in December. Revenues rose, except in health services, where they decreased. Wages also rose, and employment changed little. Service producers indicated that prices rose 0.5 percent in December. They expected increased demand for their services and an increase of 1.3 percent in their prices during the next six months. Manufacturing Indicators of factory activity changed little in December from their November levels, according to preliminary results of a mail survey of District manufacturers. Raw materials inventories were up compared to six months ago, and respondents expected a further increase during the next six months. Manufacturers expected shipments and employment to increase during the next six months, but they anticipated little change in the workweek. Finished goods prices increased faster in December than in November, but at a rate less than the general inflation rate. Raw materials prices increased more in December than in November, and at a rate higher than the general inflation rate. In December, respondents expected prices to rise more during the next six months than they had in November. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity generally decreased in December from November. December activity at ski resorts was below its year-ago level because of warmer weather, but bookings were up for the rest of the winter. Contacts expected better-than-normal business and slight price increases during the next six months. Ports Telephone interviews with representatives at the District ports of Baltimore and Hampton Roads (Norfolk) indicated that import and export levels in November were higher than those of a year ago but were mixed compared to their levels in October. Charleston's representative, however, reported that the Charleston port experienced one of its busiest months ever. Representatives at Charleston and Baltimore expected imports and exports to increase during the next six months, but the representative at Hampton Roads expected both to decrease. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone reported that loan demand continued to slow during late November and December. Consumer and commercial loan demand fell moderately, while mortgage loan demand declined slightly. Interest rates were higher on consumer, commercial, and mortgage loans. Many District lenders expressed concern that future interest rate increases might dampen loan demand. Most consumer and commercial lenders in North Carolina, however, were confident that loan demand would remain strong in that state. Residential Real Estate According to a telephone survey of District realtors and builders, residential real estate activity declined in December. District home sales decreased despite increased sales of lower-priced houses. Building permits, buyer traffic, and housing starts, however, were unchanged. Most real estate agents attributed the decline in home sales to increased mortgage interest rates. Home prices remained stable, although prices of nonlumber building materials rose slightly. Commercial Real Estate District contacts reported that commercial real estate activity in December grew at the same pace as in November. Real estate contacts reported little change in construction, except in West Virginia, where retail outlet building activity increased. Posted commercial rental rates increased throughout the District. Commercial vacancy rates remained steady except in North Carolina and Virginia, where they declined. Leasing agents reported that the availability of prime office space tightened, especially around Washington, D.C. State Revenues State government forecasters said that tax collections grew moderately in November and December. Real revenue growth was strong in Maryland, North Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia, somewhat weak in South Carolina, and flat in the District of Columbia. Agriculture Agricultural conditions were better than a year ago, according to District farm analysts. Small grains were in good-to-excellent condition because temperatures were above normal in December and early January. Tobacco prices remained strong, and farmers' 1995 production quotas rose because tobacco companies purchased farmers' excess stocks of tobacco. Hog and poultry output rose despite sharply lower hog prices and slightly lower poultry prices. One contact said long-term contracts insulated North Carolina hog producers against plunging prices on national markets.