Summary Economic growth in the District as a whole appears to be accelerating slightly, bringing higher rates of resource utilization. Strengthening of activity in Arizona, California, and the Pacific Northwest appears to have been only partly offset by a slight moderation in the fast-growing states of Idaho, Nevada, and Utah. Retail sales during the holiday season were reported to be moderately strong in most of the District. The services sector continues to expand noticeably. Except for aerospace, manufacturing activity generally remains at high levels in most of the District outside California, with a few industries reporting capacity constraints and large price increases. In response to higher interest rates, home sales and construction appear to have dropped back a bit, but business investment continues to pick up. Outside of housing, bank lending activity is reported to be brisk. Business Sentiment Twelfth District business leaders generally remain optimistic about the outlook for real activity in the nation and region. Survey respondents expect that over the next four quarters national growth will exceed the long-run historical average pace, the unemployment rate will fall further, and inflation will accelerate slightly Within the region, growth in most states is expected to exceed the national pace. Among regional spending components, business investment is expected to strengthen further, but housing starts generally are expected to drop back; the main exception is California, where some respondents anticipate a slight improvement in housing construction from relatively weak levels. Retail Trade and Services Holiday season retail sales were reported to be moderately strong in most parts of the District and in some areas to be substantially stronger this season relative to weak levels a year earlier. Big- ticket items reportedly sold better than less expensive merchandise; for example, sales of computer peripheral equipment, software, other electronic goods, and automobiles generally were reported to be robust, but lower-end apparel sales were weak, leading to substantial price discounting in many areas. Within California, the relative strength in holiday sales was particularly noticeable in Central and Southern California, where activity last holiday season was at low levels. Retail sales in Idaho and Utah reportedly were boosted by the addition of recent domestic in-migrants to the pool of shoppers in the states, with furniture, housewares, and other items used in new homes said to be particularly strong. Respondents from the border region of Arizona noted that the late-December devaluation of the Mexican peso noticeably inhibited trans-border shopping by Mexican residents, but this devaluation reportedly had less immediate effect on holiday sales in the San Diego area. The services sector continues to expand moderately, boosted by gains in tourism and business services and less of a drag from restructuring in the health care industry. Hospitals were reported to be more willing to make investment purchases recently. Hotel occupancy rates were reported to be high in most of California and Utah, owing in part to convention activity and a strong start to the ski season. Among business services, software development has been strong, and in tight labor markets, such as in Idaho-wages for computer programmers were reported to be increasing rapidly. The government sector remains weak, and new concerns about budgetary pressures have been expressed in some areas. In Oregon, wages of state government employees are scheduled to be cut in mid-1995. In eastern Washington, expectations of a significant reduction in the workforce at the Hanford site this year are dampening the business outlook in that area. In Southern California, respondents expect the Orange County bankruptcy and investment pool losses to result in a combination of local government layoffs, service cuts, infrastructure project delays and cancellations, and higher "user fees." Manufacturing Outside of aerospace, manufacturing activity generally remains at high levels in most of the District outside California, with a few industries reporting capacity constraints and large price increases. In the Pacific Northwest, electronics manufacturing industries were reported to be producing at high levels, but growth appears to have slowed somewhat recently. In the pulp and paper industry group, all segments were reported to be tight now, with strong demand and low inventories. Newsprint prices reportedly jumped 20 percent in 1994 and are expected to climb about 25 percent further this year. A major food retailer noted that paper and other packaging costs were increasing and indicated that the increases will have to be passed on to consumers. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries District farmers report generally good conditions but express concern about rising costs of labor, transportation, and raw materials. Crop and cattle grazing conditions generally have been aided by high levels of precipitation; water levels in most parts of California are well above normal so far this winter, and an Arizona rancher reports enough rain to let cattle feed over a wider than usual range. In California, some pressure on wages was reported, particularly for drivers of trucks containing agricultural products, and transportation costs also have been boosted by an increase in diesel fuel prices. Several agricultural sector respondents noted that chemical, water, and packaging costs are increasing rapidly. Real Estate and Construction Home sales and construction appear to have dropped back a bit in many parts of the District recently. In Central and Southern California, new home construction reportedly weakened, and sales of existing homes were off. In many other areas, housing sale and construction activity typically are at seasonal lows this time of year; changes in activity were less discernible in the thin markets. Financial Institutions Bank lending activity is reported brisk, but margins appear to be shrinking in some areas, as pricing has become more competitive. In California, some banks expressed concern about the effects of past lending to businesses that sold products and services to Orange County and uncertainty about the effects of the Mexican peso devaluation. However, this was not expected to slow the improving economic conditions in the state or banking industry substantially, and community banks in Northern California were particularly upbeat. In Utah, banks were reported to be experiencing strong deposit growth and strong demand for consumer and commercial loans.