Summary Economic expansion remained vibrant around much of the nation in recent months, and conditions seem to have grown more uniform among the Districts. The underlying momentum in consumer spending growth remained quite strong. Manufacturers continued to offer some of the brightest reports within the Districts, although the overall pace of expansion in industrial output may have eased somewhat. Assessments of auto industry conditions remained upbeat. Higher mortgage interest rates appear to have slowed single-family housing activity, but multifamily residential and commercial construction remained relatively strong. Expansion in bank loans slowed, led by weaker demand for home mortgage, home equity, and residential construction loans. Production responses to livestock price declines are anticipated to bolster farm income in the current year. Labor markets continued to strengthen, with most reports indicating unchanged to somewhat higher wage increases. Price increases seemed somewhat more widespread than were reported in early December, while higher inflationary expectations were apparent in business surveys. Retail Sales Retail sales increased at a moderate pace in the holiday season. Sales gains may have fallen mostly below expectations formed just after the Thanksgiving weekend, but weather effects and other factors point to stronger underlying momentum in spending growth. Nearly every District reported continued strength in sales gains for hard goods and/or big-ticket items, including personal computers, other consumer electronics items, home furnishings and appliances. Assessments of auto sales remained quite positive in most of the nation. Apparel sales were weaker in normally cold Districts that experienced relatively warm winter weather, and many apparel retailers reported heavier-than-anticipated discounting. However, there were signs of underlying strength even in the apparel category. Several Districts in the northern part of the country noted that apparel sales weakness was concentrated in outerwear, while retailers in the Atlanta District noted that warmer-than-usual weather held back overall holiday sales gains, except for apparel, which showed relatively strong gains. Manufacturing Manufacturers continued to provide some of the strongest reports within the Districts, although the overall growth rate may have slowed modestly. Philadelphia's survey of manufacturers showed output continuing to grow in the fourth quarter, although somewhat more slowly than a strong year-earlier period; looking ahead, about twice as many respondents expected order increases than decreases during the first half of 1995. Richmond's mail survey also suggested that most manufacturers expect further gains in output, with little change in the pace of current growth reported since the last survey. Purchasing managers' surveys in the Chicago region pointed to vigorous gains in industrial output as 1994 came to a close, although expansion was not quite so strong as earlier in the year. Production and orders trends in durable goods industries continued to lead growth within the overall manufacturing sector. Cleveland's industrial contacts indicated that orders growth remains solid, with particular strength in capital goods industries. Automotive contacts reported some of the strongest sales gains within Boston's manufacturing sector. Cleveland and Chicago reported strength in demand for steel, with Chicago noting that steel output plans for the first quarter were recently increased in response to stronger automotive orders. Auto parts suppliers continued to announce construction of new production facilities in the Atlanta region. Increased exports to Europe boosted recent results among Cleveland's manufacturing contacts. Uncertainty over Mexican developments clouded expectations in several regions, however. Construction and Real Estate Higher mortgage interest rates appear to have slowed homebuilding and residential real estate activity around much of the nation. Seasonal patterns account for some of the recent weakness, but home sales weakened in normally cold regions that enjoyed relatively warm and favorable weather. Multifamily and commercial construction were stronger than single-family homebuilding in nearly every District. For example, Dallas reported that overall demand for construction- related products edged up; lumber producers reported lower sales for residential building but increased orders for commercial construction, and glass producers reported record sales partly for the same reason. Declining commercial vacancy rates were widely reported, and continued growth in commercial and multifamily development was generally anticipated in 1995. However, a wider group of contacts expressed concern about the future impact of higher interest rates on real estate and commercial construction activity. Banking Expansion in bank loans slowed, led by weaker demand for home mortgage, home equity, and residential construction loans. Most Districts indicated that commercial and industrial loan demand remains relatively strong. "Outside of housing," San Francisco noted, "bank lending activity is reported to be brisk." A number of Districts reported slower growth or declines in business loan demand, however. After a relatively strong group of reports in December, assessments of trends in consumer loan demand were mixed, with some new slowing apparent even in Districts with relatively strong retail sales gains. Wherever noted, delinquency rates continued to decline. Philadelphia characterized loan officers' outlooks as "positive but cautious," with overall loan growth expected to ease as the year progresses. Reports of tighter lending margins were noted in several Districts, and Philadelphia stated that officers may review future lending plans as a result. Agricultural banks in the Kansas City District reported that crop loans were in better condition than a year ago, while a slump in hog and cattle prices weighed on livestock loan quality. Agriculture Production responses to livestock price declines are anticipated to help bring some recovery in farm income in the current year. Kansas City reported that bankers generally expect farm income to improve slightly in its region during 1995, assuming normal crop yields, as livestock prices are anticipated to return to break-even levels. Chicago noted that hog production was up only marginally from last year and well short of expectations. Producers in the Chicago region account for a substantial share of national output, and they have made sizable cuts in planned production. Minneapolis noted that modest recent improvement in livestock prices have improved producer outlooks for 1995, and there are signs of increased farmer willingness to invest in new machinery. Labor Markets Continued strengthening and/or increasingly tight labor markets were widely noted, although a minority of Districts suggested that wage pressures may have eased in some occupations. Minneapolis stated that "evidence of tight labor markets abounds." Retailers in the St. Louis and Chicago Districts reported difficulty meeting holiday seasonal labor needs, and St. Louis found that retailers were actively recruiting personnel from other stores. Strong demand for temporary workers was reported in the Boston, Atlanta, and Dallas Districts, with Dallas also noting increasing wage pressures for temporary labor. Chicago reported that shortages of machine tool operators caused some production bottlenecks, and prompted some capital spending delays because workers were not available to operate new machinery. Reports on permanent manufacturing employment trends were mixed; growth was noted by contacts in Cleveland, Chicago and Richmond, while employment seemed to remain relatively flat among manufacturers contacted by Boston and Philadelphia. At the same time, Boston reported a tighter market for clerical workers, with increased opportunities for permanent employment. New York reported significant job cut announcements in the financial services sector. Increasing wage pressures were reported more frequently in the Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts, while Kansas City stated that tightness in markets for skilled manufacturing and construction labor had eased. Surveys by compensation consulting companies in the Chicago region suggest that salary increases for exempt salaried employees of large firms will remain in line with 1994, while pay varying with sales growth, profitability, customer service, or other organizational goals will continue to take an increased share of total compensation. Prices The pace of price increases seemed steady to somewhat higher since reports in early December, while higher inflationary expectations were apparent in business surveys conducted in San Francisco and Chicago. District reports continued to emphasize shortages and increasing input prices in manufacturing and construction, coupled with stability in most retail prices. Price discounting during the holiday season ran heavier than many retailers had anticipated, particularly in apparel. Manufacturers continued to report strong (but perhaps diminishing) pressure against output price increases. Boston stated that long- term agreements with suppliers, low labor cost increases, pressure from customers and greater operating efficiency continue to limit many manufacturers' needs for output price increases. Reports from a minority of Districts included a growing set of exceptions to this rule, however. Retailers in Dallas and San Francisco noted higher price pressures from rising packaging costs. Labor shortages and strong demand increased price pressures among service firms in the Dallas region. Agricultural businesses in the San Francisco region expressed concern about rising labor, transportation, packaging, and raw materials costs.