The Ninth District economy grew moderately since the last report. Growth was noted in consumer spending, construction, real estate, manufacturing, and professional services. Tourism and mining were mixed, while energy and agriculture were down. Labor markets remained tight, while wage pressures were moderate and price pressures remained low. Consumer Spending and Tourism Since the last report, consumer spending was up. Chain stores have opened in new locations across the District. Since January, new grocery stores opened in Minneapolis-St. Paul and Duluth, Minn. A strip mall in Williston, N.D., was filling up with local and national retailers, and the city "continues to evolve as a retail hub," said an economic development official. In Bismarck, N.D., a number of national chain stores that opened six months ago in a large mall reported earnings "above their sales projections and continue to outperform sales expectations," according to a local report. Sales of cars and trucks have "been good and remain steady," since the last report, according to a dealership in La Crosse, Wis.; "New car sales were down slightly, but used car sales are doing better" compared with the previous quarter. Tourism conditions were mixed since the previous report. Canadian travel to eastern North Dakota dropped due to the strength of the dollar, according to a travel agency representative. A northern Montana ski resort reported that visitors since the last report were down only "very slightly," which one official considered "not too bad given the crunch we're feeling from the lack of Albertan visitors." In Wisconsin, visits to the state's tourism website rose 24 percent in the past few months "after late snows arrived for ski enthusiasts," according to a tourism official. Visits to the South Dakota Badlands were up since the last report, which officials attributed to low gas prices, a mild winter, and a new visitor center at a historic site. Construction and Real Estate Commercial construction has been strong since the last report. Several large projects in Marquette, Mich., including a new hospital, are making for an "above-average construction season" in the Upper Peninsula, according to a local source. Commercial permit value over the first two months of 2016 was robust in Rapid City, S.D., Rochester, Minn., and Sioux Falls compared with the same period a year earlier. The owner of a construction firm in southwestern Montana stated that "we haven't had this much work in a decade." However, commercial permit activity in Bismarck and Billings, Mont., slowed over this period. Residential construction activity was modest. In Minneapolis-St. Paul, total units and permitted value for the first quarter of 2016 were lower than a year earlier. New single-family permits rose in Missoula, Mont., but fell in St. Cloud, Minn. Multifamily permitted units rose strongly in Rochester and Sioux Falls. Commercial real estate activity was moderate since the last report. In Minneapolis-St. Paul, vacancy rates remained low, and several sales of apartment complexes saw notable price appreciation. In Sioux Falls, vacancy rates for industrial, office, and retail space were flat or falling since the last report; however, apartment vacancies have risen. Residential real estate activity was moderate, while low inventory was inhibiting sales. Rochester saw January-February home sales drop by 8 percent over a year earlier. "The primary story is a dwindling supply of inventory," according to an industry source. Homes for sale in Minneapolis-St. Paul in February were almost 20 percent lower than a year earlier, and were at record lows. Early 2016 home sales were up in Bozeman and Missoula, Mont., compared with a year earlier, and rose by 10 percent across Minnesota and by 12 percent in 14 northern Wisconsin counties. Manufacturing Manufacturing increased slightly since the last report. A manufacturing index by Creighton University indicated increased activity in March in Minnesota and South Dakota; North Dakota remained at contraction levels, but its index increased from a month earlier. A staffing firm in southern Minnesota said that "things are starting to pick up" at two major manufacturing clients; one was adding new product lines, and the other was expanding plant capacity. An equipment producer reported that demand for construction equipment was strong, but other sectors were off and agricultural equipment demand remained weak. Energy and Mining Conditions in the energy sector remained weak, while mining activity stabilized. The number of active drilling rigs as of late March in the District fell further from a month earlier. Coal shipments on regional railroads were down from a year ago. A currently idle iron mine in Minnesota will resume production in May; another idled mine announced plans to start back up later this year, but did not give a date. A mine in Montana announced plans to increase production and add up to 100 new workers. In contrast, two Wisconsin mines that produce sand for hydraulic fracturing announced that they were laying off workers. Agriculture District agricultural conditions remained weak. A contact in eastern Montana reported that less-profitable farms were leaving the business, and more exits were expected. Reports indicated that District farmers intended to plant fewer acres of wheat but more acres of corn in 2016 compared with last year, and an early forecast pointed to a strong growing season in parts of the District this year. Logging in northern Wisconsin was slowed by a warm winter that made the ground too soft for equipment. Farm prices fell in February from a year earlier for corn, wheat, soybeans, hay, hogs, cattle, chickens, eggs, and milk; prices for turkeys increased from a year earlier. Services Activity since the last report among professional services firms was moderate. An architectural firm expanded its services to Sioux Falls. A dental service provider expanded services to Sidney, Mont. A communications firm in St. Paul reported that large clients were still cautious with their budgets and "are kicking the can down the road" with communication campaigns. However, early adopters and emerging-category companies, such as organic and natural brands, were "active and don't want to miss out on market share." A Maple Grove, Minn., accountant reported that "this quarter's business is up, primarily due to year-end and reporting requirements." Employment, Wages, and Prices Employment grew moderately since the last report. Staffing firms in St. Cloud and Mankato, Minn., reported stronger placements and revenue in the first quarter of 2016 compared with a year earlier. A food processing company announced an expansion in Minneapolis-St. Paul, bringing 150 workers. Job postings in Sioux Falls in March were up about 15 percent from a year earlier; a new discount store there was bringing 300 jobs. An uptick in construction in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan was expected to increase labor needs by 25 percent over the coming year, said an industry source. Meanwhile, firms were struggling to find workers. A Minneapolis-St. Paul staffing firm said billable hours "are way down. Not because of the lack of jobs, but lack of candidates." At the same time, a health care start-up in Minneapolis-St. Paul cut more than 20 workers, and a food processor in southeastern Minnesota closed and cut about 120 workers. Wage pressure was moderate. A Minnesota staffing firm said there was a "slight increase" in starting wages since the first of the year. In Minneapolis-St. Paul, a teachers union received annual raises averaging 2.25 percent over two years, and a service workers union negotiated a four-year contract with a total wage increase of 12.3 percent, reportedly its largest in 20 years. Some skilled labor categories were seeing wage increases; a survey of high-tech employers in Montana found that wages were expected to rise 5 percent this year. Price pressures remain low. A Twin Cities builder said the firm was "projecting flat overall pricing." A Minnesota manufacturer noted that "steel and plastic raw material prices remain low, but I suspect steel will begin to increase this summer." A railroad serving the District announced a reduction in shipping rates.