Overview According to contacts, the Southeast economy grew at a moderate pace in November. After recording disappointing results in October, retailers reported significant improvement in sales in November. They also indicated that the holiday shopping season got off to a good start over the Thanksgiving weekend, with a majority reporting healthy year-over-year sales increases. Reports on industrial production were mixed, with several manufacturers reporting a substantial decline in new orders. Tourism and business travel were said to be strong in all District states. While construction and sales of single-family homes have slowed seasonally, realtors indicated that these markets have been more active than is generally the case for this time of year. Commercial and multifamily construction continue at a strong pace, with reports of speculative building becoming more numerous. Bankers said that loan demand remains good overall, although commercial lending has been much stronger than consumer lending. Most contacts reported only modest wage and price pressures. Consumer Spending After recording disappointing sales results in October, most District retailers said that sales improved significantly in November. A majority of retailers contacted after the Thanksgiving holiday weekend said that sales generally had met or exceeded their expectations. Retailers in Georgia and Tennessee reported the most positive weekend results, while contacts in Florida were somewhat disappointed with their showing. However, retailers throughout the District remain optimistic that holiday sales will be relatively good this year, with healthy year-over-year growth. The best selling items were reported to be electronics and other household durables while apparel products made an unexpectedly strong showing in most of the District. Manufacturing Although a majority of manufacturing firms contacted reported increases in production in November, most also saw a slowing in new orders, even in sectors that previously had recorded strong growth. In general, fewer contacts than before indicated that they had increased their factory payrolls since the last Beigebook and most were less optimistic concerning their future hiring plans. More positively, however, several companies recently have announced plans to expand their operations in the District. In Alabama, several firms indicated that they would be locating new manufacturing plants in the state in order to supply the new Mercedes Benz assembly plant. Contacts in the printing and publishing industry say that their operations in the Nashville area continue to do well, while building suppliers reported a boost in activity related to the hurricane Opal rebuilding effort. Tourism and Business Travel Tourism and business travel remain a bright spat in the District economy. According to tourism officials, the number of foreign and domestic visitors to south Florida has rebounded significantly from last year's disappointing levels. Hotel owners in central Florida reported good occupancy rates despite the addition of a large number of new rooms over the last year. Florida tourism officials are optimistic that hurricane damaged beach properties in the Florida Panhandle will be ready to accommodate both the snowbirds who will arrive in January and February and the collegiate spring break crowd in March and April. Tourism associated with the gaming industry in western Louisiana and along the Mississippi Gulf Coat continues to do quite well, although disappointing gambling revenues were said to be a factor in the recent closing of New Orleans' land based casino. Construction Several real estate contacts noted that while sales and new construction slowed seasonally, they have been better than generally is expected at this time of the year. Inventories of new and existing homes for sale were reported to be tight, particularly at the low end of the market. In some areas, this lack of supply has begun to drive home prices higher, although prices generally remain stable in most of the District. Both realtors and builders are optimistic that local real estate market conditions will remain favorable, and most anticipate that sales and construction in the first half of 1996 will exceed year-ago levels. Commercial and multifamily real estate contacts from across the District characterized their markets as strong. Low vacancy rates and higher rents have spurred new apartment and office development in many local markets. While most office and retail projects continue to be build-to-suit, contacts also noted that a number of speculative projects have gotten underway in recent months. Real estate professionals remain optimistic about the prospects for each of these markets, and most anticipate that the pace of new construction of both commercial and multifamily projects will be strong through much of 1996. Financial Services The majority of bankers contacted in November characterized overall loan demand as good. Commercial lending continues to be stronger than consumer lending in most areas. Bankers noted that consumer lending generally has been flat, except for a few pockets of strength. Most contacts reported that auto lending remains weak. Wages and Prices In parts of the District that previously had reported increased wage pressures due to tight labor market conditions, contacts reported that pressures have begun to subside. Manufacturers generally reported that commodity price pressures also have eased, although some producers indicated that they expect to see renewed materials price increases in the next few months.