Overview The district economy remained strong during the past month. Manufacturing strengthened farther, and homebuilding activity edged up. Retail sales held steady at a level slightly below last year's sales. Agriculture's income prospects brightened modestly, and energy activity stayed sluggish. Manufacturers continued to report shortages of some kinds of skilled labor and rising prices for some materials, but wages and retail prices held steady. Retail Sales Most retailers report retail sales were unchanged last month from the month before but remained slightly below year-ago levels. Apparel sales remained weak while sales of home furnishings strengthened. Retailers generally expect modest gains in sales during the holiday season, and most indicate their inventories are in line with expected holiday sales. Automobile dealers report a normal seasonal decline in sales from the month before, but a shortage of 1996 models also contributed to the decline. Dealers expect sales to increase in the months ahead as popular new car and truck models become more readily available. Manufacturing Capacity use in district manufacturing remained high during the past month. While some manufacturers report shortages of skilled labor, none report production bottlenecks due to capacity constraints. A recent survey of district manufacturers found that manufacturers increased production last month, while continuing to work off inventories of materials and finished products. Housing Most builders report housing starts picked up slightly last month but generally remained below the year-ago level. While construction of single-family homes remained sluggish in much of the district, construction of multi-family buildings strengthened. Sales of existing homes remained flat during the past month but were stronger than last year's sales. Builders describe the inventory of unsold homes as normal or slightly less than normal and report that home prices have climbed during the past year. Building materials are readily available, and most builders expect little change in prices or availability of material in the next few months, despite a recent decline in lumber prices. Mortgage lenders throughout the district expect mortgage demand to remain strong during the next few months. Banking Loans rose faster than deposits at district banks last month, pushing up loan-deposit ratios. Most bankers report gains in commercial and industrial loans, consumer loans, and home improvement loans, while home equity loans, residential and commercial construction loans, and agricultural loans held steady. Security investments were also steady. Most bankers report gains in total deposits, supported by increases in MMDAs and large CDs, while demand deposits, NOW accounts, small time deposits, and IRA and Keough accounts were steady. None of the respondents banks changed their prime rate last month, and most banks anticipated no change in their prime rate in the near future. A few of the respondents lowered their consumer lending rates slightly, but most expect no change in the near term. Most of the banks report no change in lending standards. Energy Low prices for crude oil and natural gas continued to hold down activity in the district's energy industry. Slight increases in energy prices in recent weeks were not enough to encourage much exploration and drilling activity. The number of drilling rigs operating in the district rose slightly during the first three weeks of November but remained well below the year-ago level. Agriculture This year's corn, milo, and soybean crops were much smaller than normal in much of the district, due to late planting and early frost. Dry weather this fall also delayed planting and early development of the district's winter wheat crop, diminishing somewhat the prospects for wheat yields at harvest next summer. The problems in crop production, combined with strong export demand, have pushed up crop prices, offsetting much of the financial impact from this year's crop losses while at the same time brightening prospects for next year's income. The higher crop prices have also pushed up feed costs, however, worsening the profit outlook for the district cattle industry. Fed cattle prices recently rose to profitable levels for the first time in six months. But large supplies of beef and competing meats may limit further gains in cattle prices, while higher feed costs squeeze profit margins. With feedlot profits weak, cattle feeders are paying less for young cattle entering feedlots, triggering losses for district cattle ranchers. As a result, many ranchers are expected to trim the size of their herds, and some may quit the business in the months ahead. On balance, higher crop prices have brightened agriculture's income prospects only modestly, due to lingering problems in the cattle industry. Wages and prices Wage and price pressures remain subdued. Labor markets are tight in much of the district, and both minimum-wage and skilled workers are in short supply in some parts of the district. Reports of rising wages, however, are few and widely scattered. Manufacturers continue to report rising prices for some raw materials, such as packaging materials and aluminum. At the retail level, however, prices remain steady.