Summary Reports in the 12th District generally point to continued solid growth and only limited signs of weakness entering late fall. Rapid expansion continues in several District states, and some California respondents saw increased business activity. Bank loan activity is high in the. District, except in parts of Southern California. Some areas recently have posted weak retail sales, particularly for autos, and expectations for holiday season sales are mixed in the District. Business leaders report only weak to moderate upward wage and price pressure overall in the District. Business Sentiment Most respondents in the District predict continued moderate national economic expansion in the near term, and they remain particularly optimistic about local growth prospects. Currently, two-thirds of the respondents predict no change in the national rates of economic growth, inflation, and unemployment. Among the remaining third, most are predicting improvements in economic growth and unemployment, and lower inflation. Furthermore, almost 60 percent predict more rapid growth in their region than in the nation as a whole, with an even stronger majority predicting stable or improved business investment, net exports, housing starts, and consumer spending in the region. Retail Trade and Services Despite recent gains in retail employment in most District states, many respondents note sluggish retail sales in the fall. Auto sales and leasing are reported low in parts of the District, due partially to reductions in incentives from manufacturers' financing programs. Tourism is reported strong in several areas, although continued warm weather is likely to affect ski areas adversely in the near term. Increased demand for business telephone services in California suggests solid growth in business activity in the state. Also, vigorous growth in District foreign trade is sustaining expansion in the wholesale trade and business service sectors. Expectations regarding holiday season sales are mixed. Respondents in a number of states cite consumer caution and debt as factors that could hold down sales. Expectations are more optimistic for Utah and Nevada, where rapid population and employment growth continues, and Oregon, where the effects of rapid growth may be augmented by a recent state income tax rebate. Manufacturing District business leaders note expanding output in high technology and related manufacturing industries, including telecommunications equipment, electronics, and medical equipment. Growth among small manufacturing firms is reported to be particularly strong in Oregon and Nevada. However, there are reports of some slowing in rapid growth among computer component manufacturers in the San Francisco Bay Area. Input prices are rising faster than finished goods prices for industrial machinery and machine tools in the District. Although Washington state manufacturing employment growth is hampered by a strike at Boeing, respondents report continued expansion among smaller manufacturing firms in that state. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Most areas report high sales of agricultural products. Abundant water supply has buoyed late season yields on some California crops, although yields on other crops, notably cotton, are off. Overall, agricultural exports from California's Central Valley are above their 1994 levels. Agricultural production and sales also are high in other states, particularly Washington and Oregon. In contrast, District cattle ranchers are being hit by a combination of high feed prices and relatively low beef prices. Also, lumber and wood product output in the Northwest has been affected in part by the moderation of national construction activity. Real Estate and Construction Real estate and construction conditions vary substantially across the District Construction activity and demand for residential and commercial space generally are low in the southern and central regions of California, although demand for warehouse and distribution space has picked up. Residential construction and sales continue to improve in the San Francisco Bay Area. The pace of construction activity remains rapid in several states, particularly Oregon and Utah, but some slowing is reported in Washington and Arizona. Home prices reportedly are rising at 5 to 6 percent annual rates in faster-growing states, and construction is being held back somewhat by shortages of skilled labor in those states. Financial Institutions Loan demand continues to be strong throughout most states in the District, and respondents note that competition remains aggressive among lenders. In parts of Southern California, loan demand reportedly is light, and some banks are attempting to avert possible deterioration in credit quality; performance among San Francisco Bay Area community banks, however, has improved.