Summary The Seventh District economy continued to expand in October and November, although manufacturing activity exhibited signs of moderating. Retail sales improved through mid-November following lackluster October results, although most retailers contacted expect holiday sales gains to be smaller than last year. Housing and construction activity remained strong in the District and expectations for the near future are still high, despite unseasonably cold weather in early November. Manufacturing activity was mixed, with signs of improvement stronger in October than in November. Labor markets remained tight in the District, with shortages still being reported in some areas. The District's corn and soybean harvest fell short of last year's record highs, while usage rates and prices remained high. District lending activity was mixed, with demand for business loans remaining strong while consumer demand showed signs of softening. Retail sales Retail sales in the District improved through most of November, following generally weak October sales. However, one survey suggested that retailers are not expecting sales gains this year to match last years strong holiday season. Retailers in the region generally plan to increase promotional activities and start these promotions earlier than last year. Competition has been intense in major metropolitan areas of the District, with some downtown area department stores cutting prices to attract customers from discount outlet malls. Sales of electronics generally have outperformed other market segments, while unseasonably cold weather boosted apparel sales in much of the region. A large national retailer reported stronger than expected sales, especially in the region, for the first big holiday shopping weekend following Thanksgiving. Particular strength was noted in appliances and furniture. Reports from District auto dealers through mid-November have been mixed. A major Midwest dealer of foreign nameplates reported that sales of core products were doing well but sales of niche products, especially sports cars, were weak. A domestic nameplate dealer described sales of new models as "spotty," but indicated that November sales were on target to meet expectations. Several dealers noted that minivan and sport/utility vehicle sales have shown improvement, while auto sales remained weak. Housing and Construction Reports from realtors and homebuilders suggest that home sales in the region had been strengthening in recent months, but the sales pace may have slowed slightly in November. Several contacts attribute any recent slowing to unseasonably cold weather in a large portion of the District. One of the largest realtors in the District indicated that sales of existing homes were up considerably from year-earlier level and continued to strengthen on a seasonally adjusted basis. A survey of homebuilders showed some weakening in new home sales in the region from October to early November. However, these assessments remained substantially above year-earlier levels and stronger than the national average. Expectations for future new home sales remained at the high levels of the third quarter. Contacts with commercial realtors and builders suggest continued strength into November, while noting a normal seasonal slowdown. Mortgage lenders expect that refinancing activity may pick up in the near future in the event of a further decline in mortgage interest rates. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the District was somewhat mixed in recent weeks, with most of October's gains reportedly linked to auto production. Most of the purchasing managers' surveys around the District posted increases in October, with the Detroit survey pulled up markedly by the auto component of its overall index. Chicago's purchasing managers' survey for November indicated no change in overall activity after October's advance, but orders and production continued to expand. Auto producers indicated a pickup in output at several District assembly plants, related either to new models or added capacity. Two large steel producers reported that orders for the fourth quarter from their auto customers were strong, with one producer indicating that incoming orders moved from 80 percent of their plant capacity in the late summer to exceeding full capacity in October. In contrast to the auto-related sectors, several reports from other producers suggest some recent slowing in demand. A small steel producer serving a diversity of markets reported that recent orders were flat to slightly down from last quarter, although production was being maintained by selling more steel to their affiliates. An analyst in the medium and heavy-duty truck industry reported a slowing pace in gross orders and fairly high cancellations, but noted that production of some models was being maintained even though inventory was being built. Producers of construction equipment continued to indicate an easing in orders and production. A major appliance producer reported that demand has been mixed, with demand for refrigerators and freezers doing well while demand for dishwashers has weakened. In contrast, producers of agricultural equipment reported that demand was strong. Labor Markets Labor markets remained tight in most of the District, with unemployment rates in District states remaining at or near their lowest levels of the last 20 years. Purchasing managers' surveys suggested a slowing of momentum in manufacturing hiring in a seasonally adjusted basis. Help-wanted advertising in the region increased slightly in the third quarter and remained slightly above year-ago levels. Temporary help agencies continued to report difficulty in filling positions, and reports of wage increases for entry-level positions persisted in the District. One analyst in a large market reported that a large fast-food chain has had to increase starting wages twice in the last two months. However, this contact noted that there has been no fast-food price increases due to labor shortages. Agriculture The fall harvest progressed at a slightly faster than normal pace in District states and is now virtually complete. Latest estimates indicate that both the corn and soybean harvest fell well short of the record highs set a year ago. Because of strong consumption patterns and sharply higher prices, however, the market value of the District's fall harvest may prove to be one of the highest in several years. Banking Lending activity around the District was mixed in October and November, with demand for business loans remaining strong and demand for consumer loans softening. Wisconsin and western Michigan, both areas of very low unemployment, continued to experience solid business loan growth, especially for new investment projects. However, some increase in inventory financing was also noted. Several bankers in major metropolitan areas reported a slowdown in consumer lending. The slowdown was attributed in part to an effort to charge higher interest rates and increase profit margins. Another contributing factor noted was a marked increase in delinquency rates in both installment and mortgage loans. One banker expected consumer loan demand to remain relatively subdued for the rest of the year.