Overview Indicators of Fifth District economic expansion changed little since the last Beige Book. Growth decreased in manufacturing and in state revenue collections. Employment agencies saw stronger demand for temporary workers, and port contacts reported that their business was up. Retail, service-production, real estate, and finance contacts reported that activity was mixed in their industries. Tourism and agriculture sources say little change in their industries' activity. Retail Trade Indicators of retail activity growth were mixed in October, according to results from a mail survey of District retailers. Sales revenue growth was unchanged overall. Several respondents reported a slow market for apparels, however; one wrote that corporate downsizings were depressing the demand for business attire. Inventory, employment, and wage growth increased. Big-ticket sales and shopper traffic growth slowed. Survey respondents indicated that retail prices rose more slowly in October than in September. They expected their prices to rise more rapidly during the next six months than they had expected in September. Service Production Service-sector growth was mixed in October, according to results from a District mail survey. Revenue growth was unchanged. Employment and wage growth increased. Service producers reported that their prices rose more slowly in October than in September. They expected their prices to rise more slowly during the next six months than they had expected in September. Manufacturing Indicators of manufacturing growth decreased in October from their September levels, according to results from a mail survey of Fifth District manufacturers. Survey respondents reported that growth in shipments and new orders decreased; backlog, workweek, and employment growth changed little. Many respondents reported a scarcity of available labor, particularly skilled labor. Manufacturers indicated that finished goods prices rose at about the same rate in October as in September, but that raw materials prices rose more slowly. Respondents expected their prices to rise less during the next six months than they had expected in September. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity in October and early November was unchanged from that of September and a year ago and that winter bookings were up compared to a year ago. Contacts expected better-than-normal business during the next six months, and they expected their prices to rise faster than the general rate of inflation during that period. Port Activity Representatives at District ports reported that export levels in October were higher than those in September and a year ago, while import levels were unchanged. Contacts continued to expect exports and imports to increase during the next six months. Temporary Employment A telephone survey of Fifth District temporary employment agencies indicated that the demand for temporary workers was higher in October and early November than in September or a year ago. Contacts expected demand during the next six months to be greater than usual. Temporary workers' wages rose faster than the general price level during the past year, and contacts expected wage increases during the next six months. One contact said. "Labor is very scarce It's getting harder for us to find qualified people." Finance Contacts at District financial institutions reported that credit conditions were mixed during the past four weeks. Demand rose slightly for consumer and commercial loans but fell for mortgage loans. Interest rates were down for consumer, commercial, and mortgage loans. Residential Real Estate According to a telephone survey of District real estate agents and homebuilders, residential real estate activity declined in October and early November. Housing starts, permits, and sales were down over the period. Many contacts in Maryland and Virginia reported that the government budget crisis slowed the market. Buyer traffic declined slightly, and several contacts blamed low consumer confidence. Construction wages and materials prices were steady, and home prices were unchanged. Commercial Real Estate District contacts reported that commercial real estate activity increased in late October and November. Leasing activity and commercial rents increased, and vacancy rates decreased. Prime office space availability continued to tighten in most of the District, and many contacts reported shortages. Most contacts continued to report little new construction. State Revenues In a mail survey, state government contacts indicated that tax receipts suggested slower economic growth in October. Compared with September, revenues for October suggested slower growth in North Carolina and Virginia; steady growth in the District of Columbia, Maryland, and South Carolina; and slightly higher growth in West Virginia. Agriculture District agricultural activity progressed at a slightly slower-than- normal pace in recent weeks, according to agricultural analysts surveyed by telephone. Contacts said that below-normal temperatures and an early snowfall slowed fall harvesting and winter crop planting in some areas of the District. They indicated that livestock conditions were good and that hay supplies appeared ample. Respondents reported that farm equipment sales were slow in dairy- dependent communities but were above normal in most other areas of the District.