Summary The District economy continues to grow at a pace similar to our last report. Retail sales grew at a moderate pace in recent months, and most contacts expect this holiday season to be slightly boner than last year's. Many contacts continue to report slow but steady growth in their industries and firms. The pace of residential construction slowed slightly in the past month, but multifamily construction is picking up in some areas. Nonresidential construction continues to be a bright spot in many parts of the District. Though overall loan demand remains strong, most contacts note some recent softening. A survey of small firms in the District reveals that more expect business conditions to improve over the next six months than expect them to worsen. Consumer Spending Retail sales grew at a moderate pace in September and October in most area of the District, with increases averaging 2 to 6 percent. Some contacts in Louisville and Memphis, however, noted declines in September and October, especially for women's apparel and other "soft" goods. For the holiday season, most contacts expect a 3 to 5 percent increase in nominal sales over last year, although many hedged these expectations with worries of potential downsizings in their areas. Although most contacts do not expect to offer unusual discounts to move merchandise, one Louisville contact will use "severe discounting" this holiday season, especially for apparel, if merchandise does not move well. Slightly more than half of District auto dealers contacted report fall sales levels below those of last year. Shortages of popular trucks and minivans at a number of dealers have dampened sales. Rebates and other incentives have been used by about half of the respondents to spur sales. Although moat dealers are not expecting stronger sales through year-end, they anticipate a pick-up in sales in early 1996. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Reports from District firms indicate that the pace of economic activity has remained relatively unchanged from the previous reporting period. Although some major firms announced plant closures that will affect the District, many contacts continue to report slow but steady growth in sales and do not expect any severe downturns. A contact in the heating and cooling industry reports a record year for the industry on the cooling side. Warm weather during the summer and a recent increase in residential construction have helped air conditioning sales; however, some slowing has occurred recently and sales of heating equipment have not yet materialized. A defense subcontractor reports business is picking up because of recent contracts secured by a major St. Louis-based defense contractor. Sales in its home health care division, though, are down about 15 percent this year over last; much of this decline stems from uncertainty about the growth rate of Medicaid and Medicare spending. The nation's largest thrift is opening a new processing center in St. Louis that will employ more than 200 people. A furniture manufacturer reports a recent pick-up in orders. A contact at a wire company notes that his firm's decline in domestic demand has been offset by a comparable increase in foreign demand. The District's apparel industry is contracting because a national manufacturer is closing two District plants and scaling back production at a third. A total of 1,265 people will lose their jobs. Another apparel firm is also closing three District plants, which will affect 700 people. In both cases, slack demand and fierce foreign competition are the causes. The southern Illinois mining industry will shrink again as three more mines close, eliminating about 700 jobs. Depleted reserves and declining demand for high- sulphur coal are being blamed for the shrinkage. A District shoe producer has announced it will leave the production aide of the business and focus solely on marketing and sales. This plant closure, which affects 195 people, is part of the company's cost- cutting and reorganization plan. Real Estate and Construction Monthly residential construction permits declined somewhat in most parts of the District. On a year-to-date basis, only four of the District's 12 metropolitan areas report permit levels above last year's. Multifamily construction in Little Rock and St. Louis is beginning to increase. Nonresidential construction continues to be a bright spot for most areas of the District. Among metropolitan areas, Columbia, Mo., and Little Rock are experiencing the District's strongest year-to-date growth in nonresidential construction permits. Tunics County, Miss., where riverboat casinos have fueled much growth in the last few years, has recently seen new construction fall off sharply. Banking and Finance Although loan demand is still reported to be strong in most parts of the District, most respondents note demand has softened somewhat in the past several months. Loan competition is still reported as brisk, and loan pricing is described as very aggressive by a number of respondents. Ax the same time, deposit growth has slowed somewhat, putting downward pressure on net interest margins. Although most respondents reported some uptick in consumer loan delinquencies, current levels are not considered worrisome. Outlook According to a recent survey of 245 small businesses in the Eighth District, nearly two-thirds expect little change in business conditions in the next six months, with those who expect an improvement slightly outnumbering those who expect conditions to deteriorate. This is in stark contrast with three months earlier, when those expecting conditions to worsen outnumbered those who expected an improvement by nearly two to one.