Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest that national economic activity continues to expand, but at the somewhat slower pace reported in the last beige book. Most district banks indicated little change from the last report; however, Cleveland and New York reported slower growth, and Chicago reported moderating growth in manufacturing. Many districts noted that retail sales appeared stronger in early November following widespread weakness in October. Districts reporting on initial holiday sales found mixed conditions. Dallas and New York said sales were lower than expected, while Atlanta, Chicago and Cleveland reported encouraging holiday results. Most reports of auto sales were weaker. Manufacturing production continued to rise, with strong demand for high-tech products in the Boston, Dallas, Minneapolis and San Francisco districts. However, several district banks reported slowing in some manufacturing industries. Single-family construction activity was mixed, but commercial real estate and construction activity remained a bright spot in many districts. Loan demand increased in most Federal Reserve districts, with strong demand for commercial and industrial loans. Demand for most business services remained strong. Rising crop prices boosted farm income in Chicago, Kansas City and Minneapolis, yet higher feed costs and low cattle prices continued to squeeze margins for ranchers in some districts. Energy activity was mostly unchanged, despite a cold snap in the Midwest and Northeast that caused prices for natural gas, heating and crude oil to rise. Most Federal Reserve districts reported tight labor market conditions for both skilled and unskilled labor. Several districts, including Chicago, Dallas and Minneapolis, reported rising wage pressures for entry-level positions. There were a few reports of price increases in intermediate goads, but very few for final goods. Consumer Spending and Retail Trade Many districts reported weak retail sales in October, but most said sales appeared stronger in early November. Initial holiday sales were mixed. Of the districts that reported on day-after-Thanksgiving sales, Dallas and New York said contacts were somewhat disappointed that sales did not meet expectations, while Atlanta, Chicago and Cleveland said sales had met or exceeded retailers expectations. Sales of apparel and other soft goods continued to be weaker than sales of hard goods. Contacts in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Minneapolis and Philadelphia said sales were strongest for computers, electronic equipment and related goods. Discounting and promotions were common across districts. Vehicle sales weakened over the past six weeks according to several district banks. The Kansas City and St. Louis districts said a shortage of popular models constrained sales. Auto dealers in Philadelphia said sales of new model cars have not met expectations, and dealers in Chicago noted sports/utility vehicle sales were outperforming auto sales. Dallas was the only district reporting improved sales. Manufacturing Most district banks said production rose during the past six weeks. Most notable was an increase in orders for high-tech products, such as computers, telecommunications equipment, semiconductors, electrical equipment and medical products, reported by the Boston, Dallas, Minneapolis and San Francisco districts. There were some reports of slower growth in a few industries, however. Several districts, including Boston, Dallas, Philadelphia aid St. Louis, noted weaker orders for apparel. Boston and Dallas also said demand for packaging products slowed. The Bosom and San Francisco districts reported softer orders for some construction-related products. Chicago said new orders had slowed in all industries except those related to auto manufacturing. Services In those districts reporting on the service sector, contacts suggested continued strength in demand for business services. Some districts indicated increased demand for temporary services, and contacts in Chicago, Dallas and Richmond said they were having difficulty filling temporary positions. After strong growth throughout the year, demand for accounting and legal services in the Dallas district eased somewhat, according to contacts. Tourism remained strong in the Atlanta district, despite hurricane-damaged beach properties in the Florida Panhandle and the recent closing of New Orleans' land based casino. San Francisco also reported strong tourism but said the warm weather may hurt ski areas. Real estate and construction Housing Single-family construction activity was mixed. New home sales and construction were strong in the Dallas and Minneapolis districts. Residential activity was mixed among states in the Boston, New York and San Francisco districts. The pace of home sales slowed in the Chicago district after strengthening in recent months. The Richmond and St. Louts districts reported declines in home construction since the last beige book report. A few districts reported increases in multifamily construction. In the Atlanta district, low vacancy rates and higher rents were boosting new apartment development. The Kansas City and St. Louis districts also reported a pickup in apartment construction over the past six weeks. Commercial Commercial real estate markets strengthened across much of the country in October and November, and were a bright spot for several districts. High demand and low vacancies boosted nonresidential construction in the Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis and St. Louis districts. Strong demand for prime office space pushed up rents in the Atlanta, Dallas and Richmond districts. New York was the only district bank that reported weaker commercial real estate conditions. Leasing activity fell in downtown Manhattan in October, and the midtown vacancy rate rose slightly as continued strong leasing activity failed to offset a sharp rise in available space. Financial institutions Loan demand continued to increase in most Federal Reserve districts in late October and early November. Lending was strongest in the Dallas, Kansas City and Philadelphia districts. Most district banks said commercial and industrial lending remained strong and some said mortgage refinancings had picked up. The exceptions were the Cleveland, New York and St. Louis districts which reported a slight moderation in loan demand growth. There were some reports of rising past due loans and consumer delinquencies in these districts, but bankers said current levels were not worrisome. Agriculture and natural resources Although several districts reported below normal crop yields, strong export demand and higher crop prices suggest improvement in farm income. Corn and soybean yields remained below last years levels in Chicago and Kansas City, and dry weather in the Dallas and Kansas City districts impeded the growth of some crops such as winter wheat. The San Francisco district said sales of agricultural products were high and that exports were above last year's levels. Higher grain prices pushed up feed costs, squeezing margins for ranchers who continue to suffer from low beef cattle prices. The Dallas and Kansas City districts reported little change in energy markets, despite a weather-related rise in natural gas, heating oil and crude oil price in recent weeks. Natural gas spot prices rose from $1.70 per thousand cubic feet in mid-October to $2.10 per thousand cubic feet by late November. Wholesale heating oil prices rose by 5 cents per gallon as colder weather hit the Midwest and East Coast. The price increases were not enough to encourage new drilling activity, however. Mining and drilling contacts in die Minneapolis district were pleased with current levels of activity. Labor markets and wage pressures Most Federal Reserve districts reported tight labor market conditions for both skilled and unskilled workers. San Francisco reported shortages of construction workers. Chicago, Dallas and Richmond cited difficulty filling temporary service positions. Boston, Cleveland and Dallas noted a shortage of workers in high- tech jobs such as software development, systems analysis and electrical engineering. Richmond said there was a general scarcity of labor, particularly in skilled manufacturing positions. There were widespread reports across the districts of labor shortages for unskilled workers, and entry-level compensation was reportedly rising in the Chicago, Dallas and Minneapolis districts. Only the Atlanta district noted subsiding wage pressures. Price pressure There were a few reports of rising prices for intermediate goods from district banks, but overall price pressures were minimal. San Francisco reported higher prices for industrial equipment and machine tools, while Kansas City and Minneapolis said prices were rising for aluminum and packaging materials. However, paper producers and corrugated box manufacturers in Dallas said they were lowering selling prices, and Boston noted a recent decline in paper prices. Petrochemical and steel prices continued to come down according to some district reports. Retailers in several districts reported heavy discounting for the holiday season. Contacts in the temporary services industry said despite wage pressures they could not raise fees because of fierce competition.