Overview The Tenth District economy continues to strengthen slowly. Retail sales are still rising, housing sector activity is increasing, and farm income continues to improve. However, activity in the energy sector has slipped and district manufacturers continue to operate below capacity. Prices remain generally stable for both retail goods and manufacturers' inputs. Retail Sales Retailers report further sales increases last month, following the Christmas season surge. Several retailers noted marked strength in apparel sales. Prices are unchanged or slightly lower compared with a month ago and are expected to remain stable. Sales are expected to continue increasing over the next few months. Most respondents are satisfied with inventory levels, but a significant minority of respondents report higher-than-desired inventories. Auto sales in the district were mixed last month, with some dealers reporting slower sales due to adverse weather. Dealers are optimistic that car sales will increase over the next few months and are padding inventories. Financing is readily available in most parts of the district. Manufacturing Purchasing agents report input prices were steady to slightly higher last month, with little change expected in coming months. Materials are readily available, although some respondents report increasing lead times for aluminum and steel. Most respondents are trimming inventory levels as part of their long-run efforts to improve financial performance. Firms generally continue to operate below capacity. Firms report mixed expectations for exports as a consequence of German reunification, problems with the transition to a market system in the former Communist countries, and other unrest in Europe. Energy Drilling activity in the district is trending downward following the yearend expiration of tax credits for some types of natural gas drilling. The average number of operating drilling rigs in district states fell from 327 in December to 287 in January. The rig count continued to fall in the first three weeks of February to an average of 228. Despite the recent declines in drilling activity, the region's rig count remains about 15 percent higher than one year ago. Housing Housing starts in the district were up last month, except where hampered by bad weather. Sales of new homes were also up. And inventories dropped to very low levels. Home prices increased and are expected to continue rising in coming months, reflecting both strong demand and sharply higher lumber prices. Demand for mortgages has been strong and is expected to remain strong. Mortgage rates are low, with little change expected in the near term. Banking Loan demand at district banks was constant to up somewhat last month. Demand was generally stronger for consumer loans and home mortgages. Demand was mostly unchanged for commercial real estate loans, construction loans, and commercial and industrial loans. Loan-deposit ratios were mixed compared with the previous month but mostly higher compared with year-ago levels. Investments were unchanged to lower at most banks. No reporting banks changed their prime rates last month, and none expect change in the near future. Consumer lending rates at about half of the banks were lower than a month ago and unchanged at the rest. Most banks expect no changes in their consumer lending rates over the near term. Lending standards were unchanged. Total deposits were flat or down at most banks compared with the month before. Demand deposit changes were mixed. NOW accounts, MMDAs, and IRA and Keogh accounts were up at most banks, while large ODs and small time and savings deposits were generally down. Agriculture The district's winter wheat crop remains in excellent condition, due to almost ideal growing conditions. A series of winter storms has provided a protective blanket of snow and boosted soil moisture, which is usually in short supply. In some parts of the district, however, the crop has received too much moisture, which could trigger disease problems and reduce crop yields. But overall, at least normal yields are expected. The harsh winter weather has slowed weight gains and swelled death losses in district feedlots. As a result, production costs have surged, and the supply of fed cattle available for sale is smaller than normal. The smaller supply of fed cattle has pushed up cattle prices to near record levels. But despite the higher prices, the surge in production costs has trimmed profits for district cattle feeders. Year end credit reviews by agricultural lenders indicate that most farm borrowers entered 1993 in strong financial condition. Livestock producers last year recorded larger financial gains than crop producers. Lest year's record grain harvest pushed down grain prices and squeezed profit margins for district crop producers. But the lower grain prices reduced feed costs and bolstered profit margins for livestock producers. Overall, most borrowers made timely payments on their farm loans.