Overview District economic activity strengthened somewhat during the past six to eight weeks. Retail sales continued to improve, and manufacturing activity picked up after several months of little change, although employment was flat in both sectors. Tourist activity increased, the demand for loans rose slightly, and both residential and commercial real estate activity improved modestly. Coal production fell in West Virginia as the result of a coal miner strike. At District ports, imports and exports declined. Agricultural harvesting was completed after having been delayed by wet weather; in the seafood industry, the oyster harvest was poor. Consumer Spending Our regular mail survey indicated that District retail activity improved in late January and the first two weeks of February. Retailers reported increased shopper traffic and sales, including sales of big-ticket items. Capital expenditures by retailers strengthened, but inventories were unchanged. Employment was steady to slightly lower. Survey respondents were optimistic about their prospects for the next six months. They expected sales, shopper traffic, and employment to rise. In addition, they anticipated some increases in wages and in wholesale and retail prices. Manufacturing Manufacturers indicated that District factory activity improved during the past month after remaining flat since November. Respondents to our regular mail survey reported increases in most indicators of manufacturing activity, although they noted that employment and levels of raw materials inventories were little changed. Manufacturers continue to be optimistic about the next six months, expecting most indicators, except inventories, to increase. Tourism Hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity in recent weeks was higher than in December and a year ago. Respondents, especially those at mountain resorts where skiing weather was good, reported that bookings and tourist spending were above a year ago. Over half of the respondents expected tourism to improve further during the next six months. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that credit conditions improved over the last six weeks. Respondents said that commercial and consumer loan demand strengthened slightly and that commercial and consumer loan rates were steady. Banks noted that residential mortgage demand, both for new loans and refinancings, picked up when home mortgage rates fell sharply over the last six weeks. About half of the commercial loan officers surveyed reported that regulatory requirements had hindered their ability to make loans, while most of the residential mortgage and consumer loan officers reported that regulation had not restricted their activity. Ports Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that imports and exports were lower in January than in December and a year ago. Exports were expected to pick up at all ports during the next six months. Residential Real Estate Real estate analysts surveyed by telephone reported that residential activity remained strong during the past six weeks. Housing sales were steady in most price ranges but higher for homes in the mid- price range. Housing starts declined, mainly because of an unusually wet January. One analyst reported that large builders in some parts of the Carolinas were unable to meet demand for low-priced homes because of a shortage of building lots. Home prices rose in some areas of the District. Most District analysts noted that new home prices had not yet reflected higher lumber prices except In South Carolina. Analysts expected higher lumber prices to push up new home prices soon, however, and they anticipated that some homebuyer Interest would then shift from new to existing homes. Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate activity in the District picked up during the past six weeks. Vacancy rates declined, particularly in the office and industrial markets. Despite lower vacancy rates, relatively little new construction was reported. Where building activity was underway, virtually all of the space was pre-leased. District commercial leasing and construction activity continued to be strongest in the Carolinas, particularly in the Charlotte, Raleigh, Columbia, and Greenville/Spartanburg areas. State Government Revenues Government analysts contacted by telephone reported that recent state revenue collections had met projections in most District states. Inflation-adjusted revenues were growing in all District states except West Virginia, where they were flat, and in the District of Columbia, where collections were down. Coal and Timber Coal production for the week ending February 13 in West Virginia was 10 percent below year-ago levels because of a strike by coal miners. The decreased production had not affected electric utilities, however, because of the large coal stockpiles held by both the utilities and the coal companies. In West Virginia and the Carolinas, industry contacts reported that the demand for softwood and hardwood lumber remained strong. Even though timber-cutting was active, some wood product firms apparently cut back their operations because of difficulty in obtaining logs. Agriculture and Seafood Conditions in agriculture and in the seafood industry were mixed. Dry conditions in late January helped farmers complete harvesting activity that had been delayed by persistent rains during December and early January. Also, a cold snap in mid-February apparently benefited fruit trees in the Carolinas by preventing a premature end to their winter dormancy. Crop prices, however, remained below year- ago levels, and farmers were concerned that continued low crop prices would depress their 1993 crop cash receipts. In the seafood industry, the winter harvest of oysters was unusually poor, according to District watermen.