Summary Economic conditions remain mixed in the Twelfth District, with weakness reported in California and Washington, but generally favorable conditions reported in most other District states. In California, weak conditions continue in areas dependent on aerospace and defense-related manufacturing; and in Washington, significant layoffs in 1993 were announced at Boeing. Outside of these areas, growth is reported in several sectors, with the strongest conditions reported in eastern Washington, Utah, and Idaho. Overall business sentiment continues to improve, and recent rains have improved District agricultural prospects. Little upward pressure on prices is reported and wage increases are reported to be modest. Business Sentiment Sentiment among Twelfth District business leaders continues to improve. Almost three quarters of our respondents now expect the real economy to expand during the next four quarters at a rate of at least 2.5 percent. This proportion is up from one-half in January and one-third in November. In general, contacts from Idaho, Oregon, and Utah expect their regions to perform slightly better than the national average. Most contacts in California and Washington, however, expect their regions to underperform the national average. Wages and Prices Little upward pressure on prices is reported by contacts in most District markets. An exception is timber prices, which are reported to have risen 20 percent since December. Pulp prices, however, have declined due in part to weak export demand. Aluminum prices are reported as very soft due to declining demand. Most contacts are projecting wage increases near 3 percent, although some decreases are reported for public employees in fiscally strapped regions. Retail Trade and Services Contacts report generally good retail sales in most District markets. One national retailer reports that sales continue moderately better than last year, that inventories are slightly leaner, and that conditions have improved somewhat in both northern and southern California. Another national retailer reports stronger than expected sales in January and February, and also that inventories are lean, but that California remains a weak spot. Robust new truck and used car sales are reported in Idaho, although consumers remain cautious. In California, weakness is reported in a broad range of service sector activities. In legal services, a contact from northern California reports that a number of firms have announced layoffs in the last month and that more firms are expected to contract in size. In telecommunications, demand is reported as very weak with a large number of disconnections occurring in southern California, The state's public universities face further cutbacks, and overall tourism is flat. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity continues to contract as layoffs in aerospace and defense-related industries continue in southern California and Washington. In mid-February, Boeing confirmed it would eliminate 23,000 jobs this year and another 5,000 during the first half of 1994. Of the total this year, 15,000 jobs will be cut in Washington state. Contacts report that these job reductions were widely expected following Boeing's announcement in late January that it would reduce production. The Boeing cutbacks are expected to have a negative impact on its suppliers, with layoffs already announced by smaller firms in Washington, Oregon, and southern California. Outside of aerospace, District manufacturing activity shows signs of increased activity. Orders for computer equipment and software are reported strong, the heavy equipment industry is reported as doing well, and bio-tech firms continue to expand. A contact from southern California reports that exports of high-tech high value-added goods are one of the region's few bright spots. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Recent rains and the large snowpack have improved agricultural prospects in much of the District. Acreage for several crops will be expanded due to improved water supplies. Conditions are reported to be favorable in the livestock industry, and spring grass should be exceptional for grazing. Flooding in Arizona, however, threatens the winter lettuce crop. Construction and Real Estate Nonresidential real estate and construction activity remains weak in several District markets. A contact in southern California reports that effective commercial rents continue to decline, and that concessions to tenants are up. A contact from northern California reports a four year supply of office space in San Francisco, and that available construction funds are being used to bring buildings up to code. In Oregon, a contact reports excess capacity in the construction sector, and in Utah, a contact reports that permanent financing for commercial properties is unavailable in most cases. The residential sector is showing more strength. A contact in Arizona reports that housing starts are the highest in 10 years, and that good residential lots are in short supply. Housing prices remain soft throughout California, although sales activity has increased. Real estate conditions remain strong in Idaho, Utah, and eastern Washington. Residential lending in Hawaii is reported to be hampered by a lack of homeowner insurance due to Hurricane Iniki. Financial Institutions Mixed conditions are reported across District financial markets. In California, a contact at a large bank reports that construction, commercial, and industrial lending continues at levels below a year ago. Another contact in California expects continued weak demand for business and consumer loans through 1993, but expects some improvement in mortgage activity. Overall balance sheets are cleaner and stronger. Slow to moderate loan demand and good credit quality is reported by contacts in Utah and Oregon, and at community banks. Financing for small businesses remains tight.