Overview According to Sixth District contacts, the pace of the region's economic expansion eased modestly in February from late 1992. Retailers reported that sales remain above year-ago levels but by smaller margins than in December. Factories continued to edge production higher with negligible work force expansion. Realtors and home builders expressed confidence in the housing market, although sales and building intentions have been frustrated by unfavorable weather throughout most of the District. Aside from a new wave of mortgage refinancing, bankers generally reported that consumer and commercial loan demand is slowly improving. Except for some construction products, particularly lumber, prices have remained relatively stable and no significant wage pressures are reported. Consumer Spending Most retailers reported year-over-year increases in sales through mid-February and were generally upbeat about prospects through mid- 1993. However, year-over-year sales gains did not match the vigorous pace of year-end 1992. Spending growth at smaller establishments reportedly slowed more than at department stores. Retailers remained content to carry lean inventories, so price discounting was less widespread during February than in recent years. Strength in auto sales varied, although most dealers reported slight year-over-year increases in February. Tourism remains a bright spot in the regional economy. Air passenger traffic and convention attendance continue to out-pace year-ago levels, and further gains are expected at least through mid-1993. Manufacturing Overall factory activity continued to expand early in 1993. Although most contacts reported increases in new orders and production, few indicated expanding employment rolls. Appliance, furniture, carpet, and building materials producers are benefiting from increases in home building and renovations nationally. In addition, auto industry suppliers have increased production in response to growing new orders. Some textile contacts report new intentions to invest in productivity-enhancing equipment. However, the region's aerospace/defense industry announced layoffs, and suppliers of commercial construction materials have yet to see an upturn in business activity. Construction Realtors report that generally favorable housing market conditions are being sustained by falling mortgage rates and improved buyer confidence. They remain optimistic about sales of single-family homes and construction for the rest of the year. While most contacts saw better home sales in early February, several did note that inclement weather slowed their January business. Sales currently are running at or below strong year-ago levels. Most of the activity remains in the low- to mid-price ranges, while sales of luxury homes remain weak. Contacts are now reporting some inventory tightening. According to home builders, single-family construction continues to improve, but sharply higher lumber prices are reportedly pushing up new home prices. Most office construction has been limited to build-to-suit contracts and there is very little speculative activity, despite scattered reports of declining vacancy rates. Financing for speculative projects remains hard to obtain. Financial Services Most bankers around the region reported modest gains in loan demand in January and February, but some commercial lenders expressed disappointment in the pace of improvement. For consumers, credit card receivables are running moderately ahead of last year. Mortgage lending is again on the upswing in response to falling rates, with refinancing generally comprising a majority of total mortgage originations. Wages and Prices Although a few factory contacts reported increases in materials prices, finished goods prices remain relatively steady. Some manufacturers are attempting to post price increases, but are unsure whether they will stick in a very competitive environment. There are no indications of wage pressures.