Summary Seventh District economic expansion continued in January and early February. Labor markets strengthened, with some indications of increased hiring momentum. Consumer spending growth held up relatively well following the better-than-expected holiday season, but adverse weather may have dampened sales in February. Expansion in production continued along the pattern of improvement in the fourth quarter of 1992, although several producers noted increased concern about overseas markets. Reports from banks suggested commercial loan demand strengthened in recent months. Employment Reports from recruiting firms, individual companies, and employer surveys generally indicated that District labor markets strengthened in early 1993. with some indications of increased momentum. A large survey conducted by a temporary help company found continued improvement in hiring plans among Midwest businesses, with modestly stronger plans indicated for the region than the national average. After bottoming out in early 1991, the employment component of the Chicago purchasing managers' survey reached a five-year high in January, then slipped back slightly in February. A number of respondents to purchasing manager' surveys in Western Michigan reported hiring previously laid-off workers in recent months. A January survey of over 150 metalworking firms in the Chicago area showed strengthening in employment among respondents, and the survey director stated that some businesses are "beginning to scramble to try and find people." A number of personnel firms reported that client companies increased their permanent hiring of employees previously working on a temporary basis. One recruiting firm reported a "pretty good pickup" in permanent placements in early 1993. Increased demand remained centered among small-to-medium sized employers, where a recovery began in mid-1992, but this contact also said that a "sprinkling" of a recovery was emerging among larger companies, and at higher salary levels. One firm noted that inquiries from potential employees have declined about 50 percent since peaking in the second quarter of 1992. An auto parts and industrial equipment manufacturer stated that "we're doing all we can to keep from hiring," but employment has been moving higher with the current upturn in the firm's business, and is expected to continue to go marginally higher in the second half of the year. A number of large firms stated that employment gains were not expected to follow recent increases in business activity, citing productivity gains, and some large companies expect restructuring to adversely affect their employment in the District during 1993. Consumer Spending Retailers generally indicated that sales growth held up well after a better-than-expected holiday season, although some contacts noted that bad weather impacted sales in February. A large department store chain indicated that year-over-year same-store sales growth improved from January to February, with above-average sales gains reported for new seasonal merchandise, household goods, and big- ticket items in general. This contact stated that it is still planning conservatively, however. A retail chain with stores located primarily in the Midwest noted modest softening in year-over-year sales gains in early 1993, but after a better-than-expected holiday season and over a relatively good year-earlier period. A large retail chain stated that sales of durable goods, particularly appliances, continued to improve in early 1993, although inclement weather hurt overall sales in February. This firm's year-over-year sales gains reportedly lagged the national average in several Midwest markets in recent months. A number of retailers in the Detroit area reported better-than-expected sales gains in January, and sales held up relatively well in February in view or the bad weather. The average year-over-year sales increase for dealers surveyed at a recent recreational vehicle trade show in the Midwest was over 40 percent. Attendance at a recent auto trade show in Milwaukee surpassed the record set last year in spite of bad weather, with dealers generally reporting that the share of potential buyers in total attendance was higher than it was last year. Manufacturing Purchasing managers' surveys and reports from individual firms indicated that expansion in District manufacturing activity continued in recent months, in line with the rate of improvement seen in the fourth quarter of 1992. The production components of purchasing managers' surveys in Chicago, Milwaukee and Detroit continued to indicate moderate expansion in production in early 1993. In January, the production component of the Chicago survey reached its highest level since 1988, then slipped slightly to a still-healthy level of 69.8 percent in February. Production and new orders improvement were evident in surveys conducted in Western Michigan, and one respondent stated that "our suppliers are getting a little arrogant." Output by producers of basic materials used in durable goods production continued to move higher, although weakness lingered in some markets, and several contacts noted further slowing in sales into Europe. A large steel producer reported that a slow recovery in orders continued, with above-average strength noted for several sectors where District production is specialized, including autos, appliances, and industrial machinery. Steel shipments growth continued in January, but difficult weather impacted shipments in the District in February. A large oil refiner reported that the underlying trend in investment spending related to domestic exploration remained weak, and a heavy equipment manufacturer stated that sales of petroleum equipment have softened worldwide. An electronics manufacturer reported continued gains in domestic markets in line with those posted in late 1992, but this contact stated that "Europe is beginning to look like a basket case." A diversified manufacturer noted that weakness persists in overseas markets for several product areas, although domestic orders for auto servicing equipment have been a bright spot. A large auto parts manufacturer stated that demand has been getting stronger over the last 90 days, both from the aftermarket and OEM customers. A large appliance manufacturer stated that "we had a fantastic fourth quarter," also noting that new energy standards induced accelerated dealer procurement in the fourth quarter of 1992. A large retailer, however, stated that consumer demand remained strong in early 1993. Banking A survey of large District banks indicated that commercial loan demand was unchanged to moderately stronger in recent months, with increased demand distributed across small, medium and large customers. A middle-market lender stared that loan demand continued to pick up, but slowly and "is not yet robust." although loan marketing intensified in recent weeks. Another bank reported that outstanding commercial loan volume increased in recent months, driven by customers' needs for financing growth in inventory and receivables. This contact said that commercial loan quality has been improving along with borrowers' earnings, but some financing challenges remain. Several banks in Michigan reported increased loan demand from firms in heavy equipment industries. One large bank in the Chicago area stated that commercial lending activity "picked up dramatically" in January, citing capital investment by large manufacturing firms. Several banks stated that home mortgage refinancing picked up renewed momentum. One bank reported a record year for new consumer installment lending in 1992, as rising demand for auto loans promoted increased strength in lending toward the end of the year.