Overview The Tenth District economy is still growing moderately. Retail sales are continuing to improve, bank loan demand is strengthening further, and farm income is rising slightly. However, while activity in the energy sector improved through yearend, some slowing is expected in the near term. Retail Sales Most retailers report increased sales last month, with Christmas sales strong in most merchandise categories. District retailers anticipate further improvement in sales in 1993. Overall prices increased only slightly from a month earlier and are expected to remain nearly stable. Most respondents are satisfied with inventory levels and expect no change for the next few months. Auto sales increased slightly in the district last month, and most dealers expect this growth to continue in 1993. Some dealers report difficulty in financing inventories due to the new GMAC policy of no longer financing floor planning for autos which are not produced by General Motors. Dealers are generally satisfied with current inventory levels and expect to hold them steady. Manufacturing Most purchasing agents report input prices were steady to slightly higher through 1992. Prices are expected to increase only modestly in 1993. Materials are readily available although lead times are shortening in a few instances. Most firms are trimming inventories due to seasonal factors and a move to just-in-time inventory management. Firms are generally still operating below capacity. Exporting firms expect foreign sales to increase in 1993. Energy Drilling activity in the district continued to improve through the end of the year. The average number of active drilling rigs climbed from 307 in November to 327 in December. The rise brought the region's rig count to a level 43 percent higher than a year earlier. Drilling activity is expected to drop sharply in coming weeks due to the yearend expiration of tax incentives for coal-seam methane gas drilling. Housing Housing starts slowed last month, due mainly to seasonal factors but remain significantly higher than last year. Sales of new homes also slowed and the demand for mortgage funds declined as mortgage rates edged upward. Despite these developments, inventories of new homes declined last month and house prices rose. The price of labor remains high, but prices of other building materials are about normal. Builders apparently are accepting the price increases for lumber as a permanent reality rather than an aberration to be waited out. Despite the recent rise in mortgage rates, most respondents expect rates over the next three months to stay within a narrow range. Banking Loan demand at district banks continued to strengthen somewhat last month. Demand for commercial and industrial loans was stronger at almost all banks. Demand for consumer loans and home mortgages was flat to stronger, while demand for commercial real estate loans was generally unchanged. Loan-deposit ratios were unchanged or higher compared with the previous month, but about half of the respondents reported that loan-deposit ratios were still below year-ago levels. Investments were unchanged to higher at most banks. No banks changed their prime rates last month, and none expect to change them in the near future. While consumer lending rates were unchanged at most banks, a few respondents reported they had reduced rates. Most banks expect their consumer lending rates to remain constant over the near term. Lending standards were unchanged. Total deposits were flat at half of the responding banks and higher at the other half. Demand deposits increased at almost all banks. NOW accounts, MMDAs, and small time and savings deposits were generally constant to up, while large CDs were generally constant to down. Agriculture Most farm operators entered 1993 in solid financial condition, and the outlook for farm income in the year ahead is relatively bright. Large supplies of corn and soybeans have pushed down crop prices, limiting prospective income gains for crop producers. But low crop prices will hold down feed costs and boost incomes for livestock producers. Overall, the outlook points to a slight gain in farm income in 1993. District bankers expect the uptick in farm income to increase economic activity in rural communities, bolstering demand for both farm and commercial loans. While business conditions continue to improve in rural areas, many Main Street businesses are struggling to maintain sales against growing competition from national retail chains.