Summary Business activity in the Fourth District was generally stronger in recent months than was widely anticipated, and manufacturers forecast a larger increase in production this quarter than last. Consumer spending during the holiday season rose considerably more than retailers had estimated last fall, and housing sales in late 1992 showed sizable year-over-year increases. Most manufacturers of steel, autos, and capital goods forecast higher production this quarter than last. Still, businesses typically are not planning increases in employment, least over the next few months. Lenders report a surge in credit-card use in December, but a slacker pace in mortgage loan refinancing. Consumer Spending District retail sales in December were much stronger than retailers expected. The surge in sales led many stores to order additional holiday-type merchandise. Despite the last-minute ordering, inventories generally have been depleted, and retailers report that heavy post-season discounting to cut excess stocks will not be necessary this year. However traditional retailers, facing pressure from "off-price" competitors, were forced to discount merchandise prior to Christmas. New car dealers report a mixed sales performance in December and early January. Sellers of Big Three models generally fared better than Japanese nameplate dealers, and van and light truck sales continued to grow more strongly than those for cars. Dealers claim new car inventories, in a 60- to 70-day range, are slightly larger than desired, but stocks of the new Chrysler products are said to be tight. Dealers also note that consumers are moving toward more options and high-end models within each class. Housing and the Mortgage Market Lenders and realtors in Cleveland, Columbus, and Cincinnati report that home sales were higher in November and December than is typical for this season. Total year-over-year sales increases in Columbus were in double digits in December, with homes priced over $250,000 posting strong year-over-year gains. In Cincinnati, sales and starts rose at double-digit rates in November, and in Cleveland, sales rebounded after two monthly declines and were up 10 percent from a year earlier. Manufacturing District manufacturers expect last fall's upswing in production so continue into this quarter. Some steel producers predict that production will rebound this quarter following a decline last quarter. Several steel customers, especially automotive, have already placed orders for February and March delivery. Galvanized sheet production could reach capacity during the first quarter. Steel analysts estimate that steel operations will average about 85 percent of capacity this quarter, up from the 82 percent rate last quarter. Automotive sources also estimate a higher production rate this quarter than last. Domestic auto producers recently raised their 1993:IQ production schedules by a few percentage points from the previous forecast. If achieved, the production rate will be at least 10 percent higher than last quarter's pace. Strong demand for both passenger and truck tires has pushed tire production close to capacity for some producers. According to industry sources, these producers are planning to increase capacity to accommodate the better-than-expected sales. Capital goods producers note an uneven but steadily rising trend in their businesses. However, uncertainty over a proposed investment tax credit has led to postponements and cutbacks in some orders. A producer of information processing equipment reports that computer orders fell unexpectedly in late 1992, after a strong increase during the summer quarter. A producer of industrial motors claims that some of its customers have delayed placing new orders until more details of a possible tax credit are known. The strongly reviving heavy-duty truck market is apparently largely unaffected by the tax credit discussion. New orders in December continue to climb at an annual rate that is well above the forecast for this year. Analysts estimate a 20 percent increase in output this year from last, which will place 1993 production only slightly below the level of the last peak year in 1988. Other capital goods producers report below-average sales growth. The market for industrial controls is gradually recovering, but is still constrained by the slump in the nonresidential building industry and by weakness in aerospace. Similarly, markets for valves, fittings, and industrial components continue to strengthen erratically. Employment District employment shows little sign of a sizable pickup. Most manufacturers and retailers report that higher-than-anticipated production and sales can be accommodated with their existing work force. Although some employees have been recalled in recent weeks, many manufacturers report that they will take on new workers only after receiving sustained increases in new orders. Structural layoffs because of mergers and reorganization in the telecommunications, utilities, and plastic industries in the District are likely to result in job losses of about 1,200 workers during the year. Financial Developments Business loans outstanding rose slowly in the District again in December, according so some bankers. These sources also noted an unexpected surge in credit-card use in December. Both banks and thrifts indicate a letup in mortgage loan refinancing in December. A large thrift reported that its volume of new mortgage loans in early January had slowed substantially from a year earlier. Several thrifts and banks in the Cleveland area have been offering 30-year fixed-rate mortgages at 7.8 percent plus 2.5 to 3 points.