Summary Weakness in California continues to offset moderate growth in most other District states. In California, employment cutbacks continue in aerospace and defense-related manufacturing, construction, and trade. Holiday sales in California were characterized as flat to slightly improved, and the state's fiscal outlook remains troubled. Outside of California, moderate improvement is reported in several sectors, with the strongest conditions reported in eastern Washington, Utah, and Idaho. Holiday sales were characterized as moderate to strong in most of these areas. However, the Puget Sound area faces continued uncertainty in aerospace. Overall business sentiment has improved and recent rains have improved District agricultural prospects. Little upward pressure on prices is reported and wage increases are reported to be modest. Business Sentiment Sentiment among Twelfth District business leaders has improved since our last report. Over half of our respondents now expect the real economy to expand during the next four quarters at a rate of at least 2.5 percent. This proportion is up from one-third in November. An additional forty percent of our respondents expect real output to expand, but at a rate below 2.5 percent. Wages and Prices Little upward pressure on prices is reported by contacts in most District markets. Contacts report flat prices or downward pressure on prices for new cars, air fares, furniture, paper, and computers. Aluminum prices are reported as very soft. In Oregon, a contact reports that cold weather and the closure of a nuclear power plant is causing utilities to purchase replacement power and will result in a 10 to 14 percent rise in energy prices in 1993. Another contact, however, reports that the decline in manufacturing activity in southern California has resulted in a surplus of electric power, easing the short-term constraint in Oregon. Projections for wages in 1993 range from flat conditions to 3 percent increases, with increases in the health care industry running higher than in other industries. Retail Trade and Services Contacts from markets outside of California report good holiday sales, but lees robust conditions were reported within California. Strong sales were reported by contacts in Oregon, Washington, Utah, Idaho, and Arizona. A national retailer reported a 7 to 8 percent increase in sales in the Northwest. The same retailer, however, had only a 3 to 5 percent increase in California. Another contact in California termed retail sales as "disappointing" during the holidays, with little improvement seen over 1991. A contact in small business financing reports that sales were below expectations, and that many retailers are hurting in the San Francisco Bay area. Activity in the legal industry in California is termed weak, with several firms likely to contract employment in 1993. In addition, a telecommunications firm in California reported further deterioration in demand during November. The California governor has proposed significant cuts in aid to local governments in response so a continued state budget shortfall. The fiscal situation in Oregon is also uncertain, due to a property tax limitation and required increased spending for education. In Washington, the state has announced a budget deficit of $1.2 to $1.7 billion for the next budget cycle. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity continues to contract as layoffs in aerospace and defense-related industries continue in southern California and Washington. A manufacturer in southern California describes conditions as very bad, with no improvement in sight and further layoffs anticipated by major employers. A contact in northern California reports that layoffs are still a great concern, and that many small manufacturers are taking a wait-and-see approach to buying. In the Puget Sound area, concern remains for additional layoffs in aerospace. Other District manufacturing activity is showing some improvement. A contact in Oregon reports that electronics manufacturing is on the rebound. Orders for computer equipment also are reported strong for several categories, with foreign demand remaining brisk despite weakness in Japan. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Recent rains have improved the outlook for water supplies in many western states. The livestock industry is characterized as in fair to good shape, although the rain has hampered feed lots. Strong demand is reported in apple markets and rye grass seed. Wood product orders are firm, and inventory levels are low. In addition, western timber supplies are tight due to the lack of timber sales from public lands. Construction and Real Estate Nonresidential real sate and construction markets are reported to be weak in several District markets. One contact reports that in southern California hotel rates are declining due to increased room supply. Another contact in southern California reports that commercial rents and property values are depressed by high vacancy rates and continued employment losses. A contact from northern California reports that values of commercial buildings are falling, some below replacement cost, and that rents of some buildings are just covering operating costs. Mixed conditions are reported in the residential sector. Housing prices in southern California continue to weaken and house prices also are reported softening in the Puget Sound area, particularly for more expensive houses. New house prices in Oregon are reported up 3 to 6 percent in smaller cities, with some lack of building lots reported due to financing constraints on developers. In Utah, housing price are rising and land adjacent to metropolitan areas is also increasing in value. Financial Institutions Conditions at District financial institutions are reported as mixed. Outside of California, contacts report some growth in loan demand and deposits in Arizona, Utah, and Washington. In California, contacts report that loan demand remains weak and that the volume of outstanding loans continues to decline. Asset quality is reported weak as well, although one contact reports that the pace of deterioration has slowed recently. One contact reports that the overall delinquency rate decreased for November. Some increased demand is reported for residential mortgages and home equity lines of credit.