Summary District economic activity, sparked by a strong holiday sales season, continues to show signs of improvement. Holiday sales were generally strong throughout the District, and most retailers are optimistic about 1993. Manufacturers report increases in sales and employment. Single-family home construction continues to buoy the District's economy. Nonresidential construction is on the rise in St. Louis. Loans outstanding at large District banks continue to register small increases. According to District farmers, record or near-record harvests were the rule rather than the exception. Consumer Spending Retail sales of general merchandise in the District made a strong comeback during the holiday season. Many contacts report double- digit increases in sales compared with a year ago. Two extra days between Thanksgiving and Christmas gave retailers more time to attract early shoppers, although aggressive marketing strategies apparently were unnecessary as the level of price-cutting and advertising remained relatively low. Holiday shoppers focused on mainstays such as electronics, jewelry and small appliances, while holding off on the luxury and big-ticket items. Discounters reportedly fared better than the specialty and department stores. A number of merchants report that more customers paid for purchases with cash this year than in previous years. Inventories remain fairly steady at desired levels. Retail merchants are optimistic about the growth of sales during the early part of 1993, citing the strong holiday season and a more positive consumer attitude about the direction of the economy. District auto sales are reported to be moderately strong, although in Arkansas, many dealers called the past quarter the worst in years. Sales of mid-sized, moderately priced cars still outpaced the sales of all others, particularly upscale models. Manufacturing and Employment Reports from District manufacturing contacts are more upbeat than they have been in recent months. Many speak of increases in both sales and employment. A contact in the burglar alarm industry reports that sales are up 76 percent over last year's level. Contacts in the heavy equipment industry state that sales increased during the fourth quarter of 1992 and are expected to remain strong in the short term. Nonetheless, sales remain below peak levels, and inventories are at their lowest level since 1975-76. A beverage and grocery distributor reports that orders and inventories have been stable at desired levels. A concern of most contacts throughout the District is the lack of qualified workers available in the market. Small businesses worry about the rising cost of health care. Other reports show District poultry producers and auto parts suppliers increasing employment because of expansions and increased demand. In addition, a major household appliance manufacturer is not only recalling 650 workers laid off during the holiday season, but expects to hire an additional 550 during the first quarter to meet demand. A District shoe manufacturer has secured a contract to begin selling its products in four major Chinese cities. A St Louis defense contractor, however, continues to shrink with 320 more layoffs. A recent survey of firms in the St. Louis area reveals that approximately 20 percent will hire new employees during the first quarter, while only 8 percent plan layoffs. Nationally, 17 percent of employers plan to hire, while 13 percent plan to cut employees. Construction and Real Estate Most areas of the District finished 1992 with single-family housing permits substantially above their year-ago levels. Homebuilders cite low interest rates, increases in consumer confidence and a surge of starter-priced housing as reasons for the continuing improvement. New and existing home sales an also up in most parts of the District; though home prices are generally flat, some increases have been reported. Contacts in St. Louis note that nonresidential construction is showing signs of expansion, with public works projects and new factories accounting for the growth spurt. These same contacts report that the level of nonresidential construction is still running about 20 percent below the boom years of the mid- 1980s. Banking and Finance Consumer and business loan demand appears to be strengthening. Loans outstanding at 12 large District banks increased 0.7 percent in November and December, after declining 0.5 percent during the prior two-month period. Business loans and consumer loans increased in November and December, while real estate loans, the largest portion of these banks' combined loan portfolio, declined 2 percent during the period after a 0.8 percent decline in September and October. Agriculture and Natural Resources Farmers reported record or near-record harvests in many areas, although some corn has yet to be harvested in the northern region of the District. While prices received by District farmers have risen somewhat recently, they remain below last year's levels. Substantial amounts of precipitation were reported in many areas of the District in late December and early January. The demand for natural gas in some parts of the District has reportedly increased markedly, owing to increased drying of the recently harvested corn crop. Cotton producers in the southern portion of the District report that the quality of 1992's cotton crop was excellent. Southern pine lumber mills report that orders have declined slightly, but that production remains substantially above that of last year.