Overview Overall economic conditions in the Fifth District remain strong, although the average conceals substantial differences among the sectors of the economy and differences among the states within the District. Consumer spending during the Christmas season was generally satisfactory, with further gains expected in 1986. Manufacturing compares favorably with mid-l985. The agricultural outlook, however, remains poor. Consumer Spending Consumer spending remained strong in most areas of the District. Sales during the Christmas season were characterized as satisfactory or acceptable by several retailers. Those retailers noted that volume increases were moderate when compared to year ago figures. Retail profits were reported strong, however, due to much less price promotion in 1985. Inventories at the beginning of the year were reported to be moderate, due in part to restraint in placing orders earlier in 1985. Automobile sales appear to be strong in many areas. It is difficult to determine the extent to which that strength is due to national incentive programs that lower buyers' contract interest rates. The outlook for early 1986 is positive, with employment growth in certain areas leading to predictions of robust consumer spending. Some pickup has been noted in particular areas, such as furniture and home furnishings. Manufacturing Despite the recent decline in the foreign exchange value of the dollar, many manufacturers in the Fifth District continue to be very concerned about foreign competition. Textile manufacturers, who have reduced production, capacity, and employment over the last eighteen months, now report some room for optimism in the short-term outlook, with orders not weakening any further and inventories declining. Certain markets for textiles, such as carpets and home furnishings, were reported looking particularly attractive; others, such as apparel, were holding steady. Several manufacturers reported improved morale due to recent declines in the dollar. Reports of renewed contact with former customers were received from several producers. Most of the reports of higher morale, however, also indicated that the lower dollar has not yet led to higher sales orders, or production. Reports from manufacturers generally noted improved conditions relative to earlier this year. Construction Survey participants reported that commercial real estate vacancies in metropolitan areas of the District were generally not above average, based on the last decade's experience. Several did report unusually low rent for particular projects, however. Respondents reported moderate to strong single-family house sales in almost all areas; the single exception was the Charleston, West Virginia area, in which weak sales and a large inventory of unsold homes were reported. Also in that area, office buildings were reported to have a vacancy rate of about 20 percent. Financial Institutions The removal of minimum deposit requirement has not had dramatic effects in this District. Changes are reported to have occurred at few institutions and marketing activities have been low key and scattered. Concern has been expressed over high levels of consumer debt, with delinquencies especially apparent in credit card operations. Agriculture Farm income in the District in 1985 was dampened by low crop prices, particularly for tobacco. Although production expenses declined, net income fell substantially. The outlook, according to state agricultural officials, is for additional declines in farm income in 1986. In contrast to other products, poultry production and prices have been robust, and a good 1986 is projected. Also, growing retail demand in recent months was noted for pork products.