Overview Economic activity in the Tenth District appears to have improved slightly around yearend, with further improvement expected in 1986. Christmas season sales, though not up to retailers' expectations, contributed to a moderate increase in final quarter sales. Though auto sales were sluggish at yearend, dealers are cautiously optimistic for 1986. Inventories of retail goods and industrial materials are generally viewed as satisfactory. Prices are expected to be relatively stable both for inputs and at retail. Homebuilders are optimistic for 1986 in spite of some weakness in 1985. Savings inflows to thrift institutions are expected to increase and mortgage rates are expected to stabilize. Total loan demand is stable and total deposits are higher at commercial banks. Farm liquidations and foreclosures remain a problem, in spite of some improvement in yearend loan paydowns. Retail trade Retailers report a moderate increase in sales for the last three months of 1985 over the same period a year earlier. Clothing sales have been strong while home furnishing sales have been weak. Sales are expected to increase slightly through 1986. Prices have been stable and are expected to remain so. Generally, retailers are satisfied with their inventory levels and expect to maintain them throughout 1986. Sales for Christmas 1985 were relatively strong but not up to retailers' expectations. Automobile sales Auto sales, healthy for most of 1985, slowed by yearend. But new factory incentives and credit market conditions in general continue to have a positive impact on sales. Dealers are cautiously optimistic about new car sales in 1986. Most new car dealers are generally satisfied with their inventories. Colorado dealers report that inventories of used cars are too high, as factory sponsored financing on new autos has resulted in a glut of used cars. Purchasing agents East purchasing agents surveyed had not experienced price increases in the past three months and expect prices to remain fairly stable through 1986, due to an ample supply of materials. Some firms have trimmed materials inventory levels in recent months but most report that current levels are satisfactory. Housing activity and finance Area homebuilders report that housing activity in 1985 was generally below that of 1984, but they are somewhat optimistic for 1986. Housing starts in 1985 are fewer than those in 1984. Both prices and sales of new homes are generally at or slightly below 1984 levels. Most area homebuilders expect housing starts, sales of new home and prices of new homes for 1986 to be at or slightly above 1985 levels. Prices of most housing materials in 1985 remained close to 1984 levels, with stable to slightly lower materials prices expected for 1986. Savings and loan institutions give mixed reports regarding current savings inflows relative to a year earlier, but they expect savings inflows to increase in 1986. Respondents report constant mortgage demand and commitments and expect little change. Mortgage rates have been falling and most respondents expect them to remain at present levels in 1986. Banking Total loan demand was stable and total deposits were higher at Tenth District banks compared with a month earlier. Consumer loans, commercial and industrial loans, and residential real estate loans were generally constant. Commercial real estate lending decreased at most of the banks surveyed, while agricultural lending was steady to slightly lower. Tenth District bankers did not change either their prime rate or their consumer loan rates during the last month, and most did not anticipate any rate changes in the near future. Total deposits rose at Tenth District banks. Most respondents report higher levels of demand deposits and MMDA's. Super NOW accounts, small time deposits, and large certificates of deposit typically were constant, while changes in NOW accounts were mixed. Passbook savings accounts continued their recent pattern of decline. Bankers are beginning to see the usual seasonal inflows into IRA and Keogh accounts. Tenth District banks, in general, have not changed the minimum balances on their Super NOW's and MMDA's in response to recent deregulation. Several bankers were considering changes in minimum balances, however, though most respondents doubted significant effects on the kinds of deposits held by bank customers. Agriculture Paydowns on agricultural loans at the end of 1985 generally were reported to be satisfactory in the Tenth District. For most banks, 1985 marked an improved yearend paydown situation over a year earlier. Excellent crop yields and stronger year-end livestock prices accounted for the better than expected loan situation. Even so, bankers report that they will not carry all of their current farm accounts through 1986. Some borrowers are being sent to alternative lenders, while in cases of extreme financial stress backers are urging operators to liquidate part of their assets. Voluntary farm liquidations are running above normal in most areas. Few bankers are resorting to foreclosure as an immediate solution to failing loans, though most indicate that foreclosure is a future possibility for some borrowers. Farm Credit System (FCS) lenders in some parts of the district have not had as much foreclosure flexibility as the commercial banks. FCS outlets operating under a burden of troubled loans continue to follow strict loan review guidelines. Bankers report that the recent FCS bailout legislation has done little to alter the behavior of the FCS outlets in their area. Only a slight upswing in equipment sales was evident at the end of 1985.