Summary Analysts in the District generally expect further moderate economic expansion, nationally, in 1986. Our information on District conditions suggests that this region will continue to trail the US. Auto and light truck output will remain strong early in 1986. Heavy truck sales and production have declined. Steel production continues weak overall, but may be helped by tighter restraints on imports. Weak demand has persisted for most types of mechanical capital goods produced in the District. Construction, residential and nonresidential, continues vigorous in the District relative to recent years, but well below good levels of the 1970s. Backlogs will support nonresidential building activity near recent levels well into 1986. Consumer spending for general merchandise, through early January, is viewed as disappointing. Although the District's agricultural situation remains bleak, farm commodity prices have risen in recent months from low levels, federal farm income and price support programs have been extended, and the rate of decline in land values has slowed. Outlook for the District Recovery in economic activity in the District has generally trailed the U.S. over the past 3 years. This pattern appears likely to continue in 1986. The star performer in the District, since the end of recession in 1982, has been motor vehicles, but further expansion in this sector in 1986, if any, probably will be small. Surveys suggest that investment spending for capital goods produced in the District will be sluggish in 1986. Steel production, heavily concentrated here, may benefit somewhat if import restraints are tightened. Motor Vehicles Auto production plans for early 1986 suggest a good level, about the same as last year. But strong car sales increasingly are dependent on cut-rate financing and other inducements, as in the current round. One respected District analyst expects a small decline, about 2 percent, in total unit auto sales in calendar year 1986. Domestic makers may experience greater pressure than this if the Japanese "voluntary" quota on auto exports to the U.S. is enlarged or ended after March 31. Truck sales have been setting records, but strength is mainly in light trucks, with imports up most strongly. Sales of heavy trucks have weakened in the last half of 1985, but may have stabilized. Steel With inventories reduced to very low levels and imports below last year, steel prices have been firming. The lower value of the dollar and efforts to curb imports seem to be having some effect. Demand for steel remains generally slow, with 1986 expected to be similar to 1985. Strength is concentrated mainly in motor vehicles, light construction, and service centers. Capital Goods Demand for most types of mechanical capital goods has remained weak, but did not deteriorate further in 1985. An exception is farm equipment, which continued to decline. In 1986, cuts in capital spending are expected for electric power generating equipment, mining equipment, and oil and gas development. Sales of food processing machinery have picked up slightly. A new wave of paper plant construction is reported to be getting underway. Nonresidential Construction Construction activity in the District was hampered more than normally in November and December by bad weather. Contract backlogs for commercial buildings, highways, and apartments are large in the Chicago area. This work is proceeding in 1986. Demand for Chicago- area smaller manufacturing buildings has about exhausted the overhang of good, well-located unsold units. Among District states, the rise in nonresidential construction contracts in 1985 was strongest in Michigan, while Iowa showed essentially no growth. Nonresidential construction in the District is still well below levels of the late 1970s, compared with an increase in the U.S. Residential Construction Housing construction continued to increase in most District centers in 1985, while the U.S. probably was flat to down slightly. But the pace of residential construction in the District as a whole is only about half of good levels of the late 1970s. In recent months, expansion has been strongest in Michigan, while activity has slipped further from low levels in Iowa. Existing home sales have been vigorous in the Chicago area, with little price appreciation. Fixed- rate, 30-year mortgages are being quoted by Chicago-area lenders with nominal interest rates as low as 10 1/2 percent, low compared with levels of the past 6 years. Adjustable-rate loans are being offered with first-year rates down to around 8 1/2 percent. Consumer Spending Large District retailers report that December sales, on a same-store basis, were flat to up slightly. An industry analyst described December and early January sales as disappointing and slow. Inventories have been kept low, and sales may have been hampered as a result. Catalog stock-outs were high (in-store sales lost due to low stocks cannot be measured). Appliance sales have been strong, especially home laundry, ranges, and refrigerators. Sales of microwave ovens, which have soared in recent years, are believed to have peaked in 1985. Inventories of appliances are in good balance except for a sizable stock of room air conditioners left over from a cool summer. Airline fare wars have intensified, with little response in terms of added traffic. Agriculture Recent developments have cast a more favorable light on an otherwise bleak picture for the District's agricultural sector. Federal legislation enacted December 23 extends farm income and price support programs for five more years and paves the way for financial assistance to the troubled Farm Credit System. Problems in the most troubled district of the FCS, Omaha, which serves Iowa, apparently have eased. Farm commodity prices, although still at low levels, have been on an uptrend in recent months. Crop prices in particular have been buoyed by record movements of grain under federal price support loans and by weather-related crop setbacks in the Southern Hemisphere. Land values in the District continued to decline in the fourth quarter, but the rate of decline apparently slowed. Observers increasingly believe land markets may bottom in 1986.