The Southeast economy firmed up early this year, with strength in Georgia and Florida more than offsetting a stagnating Louisiana economy. District unemployment leveled off in October and November, partly due to late-year stability among textile and apparel jobs. Advances in single-family housing, industrial real estate development, and tourism bolstered the regional economy, while commercial construction imbalances and the farm sector weakened it. Slumping auto sales detracted from otherwise good consumer buying. Bank loan growth continued to slow. Employment and Industry November's unemployment rate remained unchanged from October at 7.3 percent, with four of the six District states registering rates below those of a year ago. Louisiana's jobless rate has leveled off near 11 percent, the highest in the Southeast. At the other extreme was Florida's rate of 5.2 percent. Although the region's textile and apparel industry has lost 15,400 jobs in the last year, employment levels have recently stabilized. Tennessee furniture makers are keeping inventories lean but are hoping that the weakening dollar will reverse a rising tide of imports. Imported lumber has captured 49 percent of the market in Georgia, 56 percent in Florida, and 10 percent in Alabama, according to industry sources. More positively, new defense contracts for ship construction are increasing employment rolls in Louisiana and Alabama shipyards. in Florida, a backlog of defense electronics orders is expected to stimulate growth in the sector in spite of anticipated defense spending cuts. The ambitious schedule of the space shuttle program (15 launches in 1986) will keep surrounding support industries on Florida's space coast busy throughout the year. Consumer Spending District merchants reported flat-to-moderate sales gains for Christmas and the first ten days of January, while year-end auto sales slumped. Regional sales growth was strongest in Atlanta, Birmingham, the central and southern parts of Florida, and western Tennessee, while much of the region's weakness was in Louisiana and Mississippi. Most merchants pasted higher profit margins in 1985 because inventory levels were better managed and increased price promotions boasted sales. Year-over-year car sales in the Southeast dropped in November and December after rising by 11 percent in both the region and the United States in the first ten months of 1985. Construction Single-family residential and industrial activity improved, while other southeastern real estate sectors are flat or show current weakness. Atlanta and Tampa home sales in early January are reported to be stronger than early last year. Atlanta buyer traffic, an important indicator of near-future sales, is high for January. Following heavy decline, Atlanta's multi-family building permits increased over 1984 in September, October, and November as builders rushed to acquire industrial development bond financing before year- end. In Jackson, apartment building plans are extremely lean, although absorption is good, causing rents to rise. In New Orleans, apartment vacancy rates are approaching 25 percent, and rents have declined by over 10 percent since last year. South Florida condominium sales are weak, prices are falling, and repossessions are accelerating, but, in central Florida, condo markets are prospering on demand from middle income families. Office construction continues to outpace leasing, even though incentives are liberally employed in most regional markets. Commercial developers cite uncertainty about future tax law changes as discouraging many investors. Rising vacancy rates are applying downward rent pressure in both Miami and New Orleans. But Atlanta real estate agents view the office market as strong in spite of its 16 percent vacancy figure. Retail construction is described as tentative in Orlando and Tampa, as new space is accumulating and leasing is sluggish. The Tampa and Nashville industrial markets seem set for expansion due to low vacancy rates and growing industrial bases locally. Financial Services Total lending activity at large District commercial banks continued to grow, albeit at a slowing rate, throughout 1985. Southeastern commercial bank stock prices took a roller coaster ride last year but largely turned up in Alabama, Florida, and Mississippi in the fourth quarter. Regional thrifts report increased mortgage sales in the secondary market. Louisiana's sagging economy continues to be reflected in its weakening financial services industry. For Louisiana thrifts, regulatory net worth declined by 32 percent in the third quarter of 1985. Tourism Last year ended on a fairly strong note for the Southeastern tourism industry, and prospects for 1986 are deemed bright by those contacted. Auto travel rose in December in Alabama and Florida after falling in four of the six District states in November. Traffic was up at most regional airports in November, but advance international bookings are not as strong as earlier. Hoteliers in southeastern convention cities report strong advance reservations. However, New Orleans contacts foresee some tapering off by March. Southeastern vacation travel in the first quarter, limited largely to Florida, is expected to grow despite a mixed performance at the end of 1985. Agriculture Moderate price increases are occurring for most District crops as supply pressures from harvest season surpluses recede somewhat. But the gains are not sufficient to substantially improve farm income prospects. Animal product industries continue to benefit from low feed costs. Orange prices, high in recent years because of freeze- reduced crops, have fallen substantially in past months as a result of large inventories of processed products, ample imports from Brazil, and prospects for increased Florida production. Growers whose freeze-damaged groves are producing only partial crops face especially severe income reductions.