Summary The Twelfth District economy appears to be improving, although problems in some sectors continue. In general, urban areas in the West are more prosperous than are rural areas. The Christmas season was a good one for most retailers. Low prices continue to trouble many agricultural producers, although the recent drop in the value of the dollar has already improved sales of almonds and winegrapes, two of the District's most important cash crops. Electronics activity is uneven, with a boom for defense related firms and continuing troubles for non-defense firms. Forest products industries, while still troubled, show some signs of improvement. Overall, construction activity remains healthy, despite substantial geographical variations. Lower interest rates are increasing the volume of mortgage applications, but refinancing appears to account for much of the increased activity. Consumer Spending Preliminary information suggests that most parts of the District had strong Christmas selling seasons. In Oregon, Christmas sales were disappointing, with volume 5 to 10 percent below last year's, but for the year as a whole Oregon's retail sales grew 20 percent. Auto sales in the fourth quarter appear to have been flat or down in most areas. The reduced value of the dollar has had little impact on imported car prices as yet, although an Oregon respondent reports that sticker prices on Japanese cars have started to climb. Agriculture Soft prices continue to cause concern among many farmers and the mood in most agricultural parts of the District remains gloomy. The situation is brighter for producers of some specialty crops, including some types of nuts, vegetables, and fruits. The reduced value of the dollar has already provided a boost to almond sales abroad and put a damper on wine imports to the U.S., which provides appreciated good news to some California growers but little comfort to farmers elsewhere in the District. Manufacturing and Mining Electronics industries continue to suffer in many parts of the district. Despite recent much-publicized increases in semiconductor orders, many semiconductor firms continue to announce layoffs and either losses or sharply declining profits. In contrast, Seattle- area firms, which produce primarily for defense purposes, appear to be doing quite well. Snohomish County in Washington, for example, is experiencing substantial growth in high-tech investment and commensurate growth in its residential construction activity. The forest products industries continue to suffer. The recent drop in the value of the dollar is unlikely to help forest products companies, because they compete primarily with Canada, whose dollar has remained stable vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar. Nevertheless, a recent survey of 60 Oregon forest products companies found that only three were unprofitable in 1985. Many of the profitable firms made only slim profits, however. In Nevada, gold and silver mining activity is expanding. In 1985, 100 million ounces of gold were mined in Nevada, a 100 percent increase from 1984's total. Mining activity for other metals, such as copper, remains depressed. Construction and Real Estate Construction activity varies both among locations in the Twelfth District and among different types of building. For the most part, building is healthier in larger metropolitan areas than in the more rural parts of Twelfth District states. One exception is the agricultural Central Valley of California, where respondents report that both residential and nonresidential building are healthy. Many areas, particularly urban centers, report high vacancy rates and oversupply in multifamily housing and in commercial space. In some such areas, including Southern California, the boom continues despite high vacancies and low absorption rates, but other regions, including Salt Lake City, report declining activity in response to oversupply. Financial Sector Interest rates on 30-year fixed rate mortgages have fallen in most parts of the Twelfth District, and are now close to 11 percent in some areas. Consequently, the number of mortgage loan applications is up substantially in most parts of the District. It is not clear, however, that the increase in applications reflects increased home buying activity. Respondents invariably report heavy refinancing activity, and some attribute the entire increase in applications to refinancing rather than home purchases. Some respondents suggest that home buying activity is being dampened by tightened lending standards instituted in response to increased mortgage default rates. With lower rates, variable rate instruments are used only rarely in most areas, although one respondent reports that in California, where variable-rate mortgages have been historically more popular than elsewhere, over half of all mortgage commitments are made through variable rate instruments.