Summary District indicators show a mixed outlook for the region and a continuation of the conflicting signals reported in November. District employment growth continues to lag national trends. Residential and nonresidential construction activity, however, has exhibited strong growth in the most recent quarter. Consumer spending also has shown stronger growth in the District than in the nation. Banking trends continue to follow a year-old pattern of sluggish growth in commercial loans and strong growth in consumer lending. The health of the local agricultural economy, as measured by agricultural finance data, points to continuing stress for farmers and their lenders. Employment District nonagricultural employment increased in October and November at annual rates of 2.5 and 1.4 percent, respectively, trailing the national rates of 4.3 and 2.2 percent. Nonagricultural employment in the District was 1.5 percent greater in November than it was a year ago; nationally, nonagricultural employment expanded 3.0 percent over the same period. The District unemployment rate increased slightly in November to 8.2 percent with decreases in Missouri and Tennessee offset by increases in the jobless rate in Arkansas and Kentucky. Construction For the three-month period ending November, residential and nonresidential construction contracts grew by 14.7 and 15.8 percent, respectively. District residential contracts were 9.5 percent above year-ago levels, exceeding the national increase of 8.4 percent. District nonresidential construction, however, grew by only 4.9 percent compared with a 14.0 percent national increase. Consumer Spending District retail sales (seasonally adjusted) remained strong over the three months ending in October, growing at an 11.9 percent rate while retail sales nationally grew at only a 1.5 percent rate over the same period. Reports from the District, however, suggest some weakness in November sales. Interviews of ten retailers in the four major cities of the District indicate moderate sales increases for the 1985 Christmas season. Increases ranging from 4 to 9 percent suggest District sale. growth was similar to, or slightly above, national levels. The strongest sales increases were reported in Memphis and St. Louis. Compared with last year, retailers kept inventories more in line with sales and avoided more unplanned price markdowns. Most respondents reported profits similar to or slightly above 1984 levels. Banking Total loans outstanding at large weekly-reporting District banks grew at a 10.1 percent annual rate for the fourth quarter. Commercial lending continues to be sluggish, increasing at a modest 3.5 percent rate compared with a 16.7 percent rate of growth for the fourth quarter of 1984. In contrast, growth of consumer lending has remained strong over the fourth quarter (25.0 percent) relative to the same period last year (18.0 percent). Consumer lending continues to be the fastest growing component of large District banks' loan portfolios. Total deposits at large District banks grew at a 10.5 percent rate for the fourth quarter compared with a 12.1 percent rate recorded for the same period last year. This slower rate can be attributed to modest growth in MMDA's, which increased at one-half the rate recorded for fourth quarter 1984. Agriculture Data for the third quarter indicate that the volume of agricultural loans outstanding at District banks is 4.3 percent less than for the same period a year ago. Kentucky, Arkansas and Missouri exhibited the sharpest declines, with volume falling by 11 to 12 percent. Farm Credit System lenders in these states and Tennessee experienced even sharper drops as farm loan volumes fell by 24 to 28 percent from a year ago. The percentage of agricultural loans past due at agricultural banks has increased steadily over the last two years, rising from 2.4 percent in 1983 to 3.0 percent in 1984 and to 3.5 percent in 1985. Due to rising agricultural loan delinquencies, total loan charge-offs at District agricultural banks have risen from 0.4 percent of total loans outstanding in the third quarter of 1983 to 0.9 percent in the third quarter of 1985. Loan charge-offs at agricultural banks nationwide, however, were even larger, rising from 0.5 percent to 1.3 percent over the same period. Missouri's agricultural banks showed the worst deterioration of loan quality in the District as the percent of loans written-off increased from 0.5 percent in 1983 to 1.8 percent in 1985.