The Eighth District economy is still expanding slowly. Health and business services are experiencing moderate growth while manufacturing, especially durables production, continues to contract. Agricultural real estate values are rising. Large District banks report that credit standards for commercial lending for certain loan types and customers have tightened somewhat. Outlook A recent survey of small businesses in the District indicates that little change is expected in overall economic conditions in the next few months. Most plan no substantial changes in workforce size or product prices. Although the majority of firms report inventories at satisfactory levels, more than a quarter of the retailers report excess inventories, twice as many as a year ago. Manufacturers generally were more pessimistic than other respondents. The number of manufacturers who said it was a good time to expand their operations fell sharply from a year ago, and substantially fewer manufacturers plan major investments in plant and equipment in the near future. Labor Markets Moderate job growth continues in medical and business services while retail and wholesale trade shows little change. Manufacturing employment continues to decline. Layoffs of auto workers caused St. Louis' unemployment rate to rise to its highest level in nearly two years. The building of a jet maintenance facility, which was to employ 800 Memphis workers, was postponed indefinitely. A survey of small businesses indicate the shortage of qualified workers for nonmanufacturing jobs has eased slightly over the past few quarters while the shortage of manufacturing workers, particularly skilled labor, has lessened substantially. Louisville and St. Louis businesses, however, report increasing difficulty in finding qualified workers. Manufacturing Plant closings and temporary layoffs, mostly in small plants, have accelerated in recent months according to contacts. Employment levels in plants making machinery, fabricated metals and textile and apparel have dropped recently. After inventories of its products rose steadily, a Missouri auto assembly plant laid off almost 2000 workers and will close indefinitely this fall, eliminating 4000 jobs. Louisville workers who assemble medium- and heavy-duty trucks were laid off for one week in early February. Later this year, however, production of a cargo truck will be shifted to Louisville from Brazil, stabilizing employment levels. A large producer of electrical components for consumer durables reports that orders have weakened in recent months and are expected to remain flat through 1990. Sluggish auto demand and slow growth in construction and consumer durable goods production have weakened steel sales, resulting in a softening of steel prices. An upturn in orders is anticipated by year's end, however. Construction Aided by mild weather, homebuilding has picked up recently. One Missouri contact notes, however, that some developers are receiving relatively low prices for their new homes. Contacts in Memphis anticipate a decline in apartment building following moderate growth last year, but expect a substantial increase in single-family homebuilding. Western Kentucky is experiencing a stagnant market for higher-priced homes, but sales of moderate- and lower-priced houses are strong. Louisville homebuilders say building will be strong this year because housing construction has not kept pace with job growth. Agriculture Contacts report that District agricultural land values are rising, with faster appreciation in the District's northern states. Contacts estimate current agricultural land values are 2 percent to 10 percent higher than six months ago. Recent rains have brought topsoil moisture conditions to levels ranging from excessive in southern parts of the District to adequate in northern regions. Subsoil moisture levels, however, remain deficient over most of Missouri. The winter wheat crop is reported to be in good condition over most of the District. Banking Five of the District's largest banks indicate that their willingness to extend credit to new and existing commercial and industrial customers has not decreased during the past six months. Most respondents say credit standards for loans related to mergers and acquisitions, however, have tightened somewhat during the past six months. Standards for non-merger-related loans have not changed for investment-grade commercial and industrial customers but have tightened somewhat for below investment-grade customers. The banks' willingness to make construction and land acquisition and development loans has declined over the last six months. Real estate lending at the 11 largest District banks slowed considerably during the three months ending in February from its pace of one year ago.