Economic activity in the Second District continued to vary among sectors in recent weeks. General business conditions improved somewhat further, and office leasing was fairly good. Homebuilding activity displayed a mixed pattern, however, and July spending at some retailers was below plan. On the financial side, small and mid- sized banks expect only a mild increase in inflation over the near term. Consumer Spending District retailers reported some slowing in sales during July. Our respondents registered over-the-year gains of 2 to 8 percent compared with increases of 3 to 13 percent in June. As a result, July sales generally were somewhat below plan. However, one chain with overall sales below target reported that results in the District were 2 percent higher than expected. Retailers were optimistic about the fall and back to school season, noting that the softening in July was the first in several months. One firm attributed its July slowdown in part to a shortage of summer merchandise that resulted from a successful promotional held at the start of the season. Due to the somewhat disappointing sales gain in July, retailers reported inventories at higher levels than planned. An exception was the firm with a shortage of summer merchandise. None of the respondents reported inventories at uncomfortable levels, however. Business Activity General business conditions in the Second District improved somewhat further in recent weeks. The percentage of Buffalo purchasing agents reporting improved or stable conditions rose in July while in Rochester, for the third consecutive month, there were no reports of worsened business conditions. Inventories were down somewhat but remain at comfortable level. Unemployment rates moved lower in both New York and New Jersey during July to 4.4 percent and 4.0 percent, respectively. Rates in most of the District's labor market areas are below the national average and in several instances have declined sharply since last year. In Elmira, for example, where some new plants have opened, the unemployment rate dropped from 6.1 percent to 3.6 percent over the year ended in June (latest data), while in Buffalo, the rate fell from 6.9 percent to 5.0 percent over the same period as 20,000 new jobs were added. The rebuilding of the Fort Drum military post now underway in northern New York State is providing a stimulus to Syracuse and several depressed economies in the upstate area. Construction and Real Estate District residential construction activity presented a mixed pattern in recent weeks. In the downstate and New Jersey markets some further slowing has occurred, and homebuilders report little traffic by prospective buyers in their areas. Most pent-up demand has already been satisfied, and high land and home prices tend to be deterrents. Upstate, however, builders remain quite busy completing existing contracts, and some areas report strong interest in future contracts. Home prices in these areas have either held steady or risen only moderately. Overall, starts in the District in 1987 are now expected to be down somewhat from last year's level. Office leasing activity has been fairly good in much of the District, and in New York City, where the vacancy rate is already relatively low, a pickup has recently occurred in commitments for space in some new buildings. However, vacancy rates remain at 20 percent or above in areas such as Westchester and Fairfield counties and northern New Jersey. While office construction has virtually halted in Westchester, new buildings continue to come on line in Fairfield and New Jersey. Financial Developments Senior officers at small and mid-sized banks in the Second District reported expectations of only a mild increase in inflation in the near future. Rising oil prices, due to political unrest in the Middle East, and the falling dollar were the factors most commonly cited as likely to lead to an acceleration of the inflation rate. Expectations of higher inflation were tempered, however, by a widespread belief that Chairman Greenspan would pursue a strong, anti-inflationary, monetary policy. Reflecting their anticipation of a modest increase in inflation, the officers believe that interest rates will show only a slight rise, if any, by the end of the year. Most of these bankers expressed hesitancy to raise their interest rates any higher this year unless the money center banks initiate such a move.