Summary Business activity continues to rise in the Seventh District, and further expansion is expected. Total employment growth in the five District states, seasonally adjusted, about matched that in the U.S. during this year's first half. Chicago area help-wanted ads in the first half were well ahead of a year earlier. Reports from this bank's directors in August, overall were the most optimistic since at least the early 1980s. District purchasing managers see continued strong expansion. In contrast, auto sales have remained persistently below last year and resulting production cuts and layoffs are particularly affecting industrial activity in southeast Michigan. Purchases of machinery have been mixed. Steel demand remains vigorous. Nonresidential construction activity, overall, appears about even with last year in the District, but has slowed in some areas. Residential construction and resales have slowed. Large District retail chain stores indicate only small gains in July sales compared with last year. Purchasing Managers Reports from Chicago and Milwaukee purchasing managers for July show strong gains in production, orders, and backlogs, lengthening lead times, and rising prices. Suppliers are increasingly able to make announced price increases "stick." Reports from Chicago purchasers in the first half of August indicate another strong month, with orders up sharply. Motor Vehicles Temporary and indefinite auto production cutbacks and layoffs, in response to continued slower sales, are having wider effects in parts of the District where the industry is heavily concentrated, particularly southeast Michigan. This slowdown is partly offset by increased demand for trucks, including both light models bought partly by consumers and larger trucks. Although Michigan manufacturing employment in June was 3 percent below a year earlier, the only District state to show a decline over this period, nonmanufacturing employment there was 4 percent higher, a larger gain than for the U.S. or the District as a whole. Lower Michigan factory employment in the latest year mainly reflects auto industry and related cuts. Sharply lower auto production in July reduced high inventory levels closer to normal levels. Model year-end cut-rate financing and rebates are expected to cut stocks further, though reports indicate that consumer response has been restrained. A major uncertainty overhanging District automakers is the outcome of labor negotiations currently underway at GM and Ford. Machinery Markets are mixed for types of machinery with substantial production in the District. Demand for diesel engines for use in trucks is strong. Shipments of truck trailers have increased. Orders have risen for diesels used in some other industrial applications. Orders for railroad engines, however, are almost nil. Buying of railcars is up, but still low. A steel producer reports higher demand from makers of construction equipment and pressure vessels used in chemical process industries. Machine tool buying is weak, but an industry source views an upturn as imminent. Production of parts, shifted abroad when the dollar strengthened in the first half of the 1980s, is being brought back to the U.S. Farm Equipment Unit sales of farm equipment remain sluggish, although concessional terms to cut inventories strengthened tractor sales this summer. Unit sales of farm tractors were 32 percent above the very low year- earlier level in July, mostly reflecting inventory paring efforts by a major District manufacturer. August sales are also expected to show a large gain as another manufacturer introducing a new line is offering discounts of up to 50 percent on a large inventory of old models. Steel District sheet steel production continues strong. A contact expressed concern about possible future shortages of some types of sheet steel. Demand for structurals and bars remains at a high level. Plate is on allocation, reflecting improved demand as well as capacity shut down when the market was soft. In response, a large Chicago-area plate mill is being restarted. Inventory rebuilding has been an important element in the strength of steel markets this year, following the six-month work stoppage at USX. However, analysts disagree on the relative importance of restocking versus improved final sales in the upturn in steel. Demand has improved from various steel users. The fall in the dollar has made domestic steel competitive with Japanese and European steel not only in U.S. markets but also abroad, though American exports of steel are restrained by trade barriers. Nonresidential Construction Work on new office buildings remains vigorous in downtown Chicago, and more announcements of new buildings are expected. Several hotels are underway or planned. Commercial building activity in suburban areas has slowed considerably over the past year. Heavy August rains and flooding delayed projects. A $225 million steel mill will be built in Indiana, the state's second major new mill announced in the past year. Residential Sales and Construction Markets for new homes and resales in the District slowed in response to the jump in mortgage interest rates in the second quarter. Most reports indicate that activity continues slower. Construction of houses is expected to be at a good level for the year, but below 1986. Multifamily construction has fallen sharply due to adverse effects of last year's tax law changes. The inventory of houses for sale is low, suggesting that resales will continue below strong 1986. Chicago area housing prices are estimated to be 10-12 percent higher than a year ago. Consumer Spending Large District retailers report small increases in the dollar volume of sales in July, compared with a year earlier. Weakness continued in early August. A survey of Illinois department and specialty stores showed moderately higher July sales than a year earlier, but smaller gains than earlier this year. The late Labor Day is expected to shift sales from August to September.