Overview The District economy continued to expand in August, although agriculture suffered from the weather and growth was sluggish in some service-related sectors. Employment rose and labor markets remained tight in much of the region. Manufacturing activity accelerated in August, but retail sales and port activity were generally unchanged. Bankers report that the demand for non- residential construction loans declined over the summer. Respondents to our regular surveys of business and financial conditions remain optimistic that the economy will improve in the months ahead. Consumer Spending Retail activity in August was generally flat according to our most recent mail survey. Retailers report little change in their total sales, but an increase in sales of big ticket items in mid-August as compared with late July. Retailers continue to expect higher sales in the next six months, but the proportion of those expecting rising sales declined since our previous survey. Forty-two percent of the respondents predict increased sales in the next six months, while the remainder are evenly divided between those predicting lower sales and no change in sales. By comparison, 60 percent of the July respondents had expected increases in sales. Thirty-five percent of the respondents described their inventory levels as "too high" and 48 percent said they were "just right." Nearly 60 percent of the respondents believe that prices for the items they buy will rise in the next six months. Manufacturing The pace of manufacturing activity increased in August according to our survey. Half of the respondents reported increased shipments in August, as compared with 37 percent who cited upturns in July. Stronger growth was also indicated by reports of increases in new orders, backlogs of orders, and the workweek. Manufacturers continue to indicate increases in the prices of both raw materials and finished products. Inventories of materials rose slightly, while finished goods inventories were generally unchanged. About two- fifths of the respondents described their inventory levels as "too high." while another two-fifths considered theirs to be "just right." The proportion of manufacturing respondents expecting growth in activity increased since our July survey. Fifty-seven percent of the August respondents expect shipments to rise in the next six months, compared with 46 percent of the July respondents. Also, 38 percent of the August respondents predict increases in their capital expenditures in coming months, as compared with 31 percent of the July respondents. Labor Markets Manufacturers and retailers responding to our surveys report tightness in their labor markets. Employment rose in both manufacturing and retailing in August, but thirty-nine percent of the manufacturing respondents and 52 percent of the retail respondents say they have job openings that remain unfilled. Port Activity Import and export volumes at the major ports in the District were generally unchanged in August from July. However, port representatives expect shipping activity to increase in the next six months. Agriculture The summer's hot, dry weather caused substantial damage to some District crops. Corn yields were hardest hit, tobacco and peanut yields were marginally affected, and the soybean crop remains at risk. There have also been several reports of heat stress on poultry flocks and dairy herds. Recent scattered rainfall and cooler temperatures should limit further losses. Two District states have asked the federal government to designate some of their drought-stricken counties as disaster areas, and other states are in the process of doing so. Such designations would allow some farmers to be eligible for federal disaster relief payments. Financial A survey of large banks across the District indicates that the demand for nonresidential construction loans has slackened compared with demand earlier in the summer. Some respondents attribute the downturn to seasonal factors, and they are optimistic that activity will increase after Labor Day. Large banks in the District expect interest rates to be stable on intermediate-term loans through the next 90 days, but they predict higher rates for loans of longer duration, such as mortgages.