Summary The District's economy weakened in recent months as employment and construction growth slowed. Agricultural conditions, however, have been positive as good weather has resulted in large yields of major crops. Livestock producers have enjoyed a profitable year with low feed costs and favorable prices. Outlook The outlook of small District businesses has improved. Only 7 percent of 211 businesses surveyed in July expected a worsening of national economic conditions in the following 6 months. This represents a substantial drop from the 17 percent anticipating deteriorating conditions in an April survey. Employment District nonfarm employment declined at a 1.0 percent rate in the second quarter compared with a 2.3 percent national rate of increase. The second quarter slowdown of District non-farm employment was due to declines in the mining, manufacturing and construction sectors and sluggish growth of the service-producing sectors. Manufacturing Manufacturing employment dropped 3.5 percent in the second quarter, returning to the level of a year earlier. Employment in most major industries has continued to decline, with only producers of electrical equipment, food products and textiles and apparel posting job increases compared with a year earlier. Regional textile plants, particularly those producing cotton products, are running at near full capacity and have a substantial backlog of orders. Textile prices reportedly have increased this year due to high consumer demand for apparel and to rising costs of inputs, particularly petroleum products and cotton. Plants making footwear in the region are operating near capacity. The permanent closure of an aging truck plant in St. Louis recently eliminated over 2,000 jobs. Due to poor car sales, 2,700 workers will be laid-off in October from an auto assembly plant in the St. Louis area. Construction and Real Estate Regional construction activity slowed recently as the nonresidential sector weakened. The seasonally-adjusted value of District nonresidential building contracts grew by 3.5 percent in the three months through July, following a 15.3 percent gain in the previous three months. Much of the slowdown was in Arkansas. Despite the recent deceleration, District nonresidential contracts were 35.8 percent above a year earlier. Regional residential building continued to decline. The value of District residential contracts fell by 8.4 percent in the three months through July. Losses were concentrated in Missouri and Tennessee. Although weak recently, District residential contracts were up 7.1 percent in the May-July period compared with the same period a year earlier due to strong single-family building. A slight decline in residential building was posted nationally during the same period. The office vacancy rate in the St. Louis metropolitan area increased to 16.4 percent in June from 13.6 percent a year before, but remained about 4 percentage points below the national metropolitan average. Area vacancy rates are expected to rise by the end of 1987 as a large volume of office space is completed. St. Louis' industrial vacancy rate of 5.4 percent was slightly below the 6.1 percent national average in June and down from 6.7 percent in June 1986. Agriculture The crop year has been extremely favorable for most District farmers. Harvests of major crops have begun amid predictions of record corn and soybean yields. The cotton harvest began a month earlier than normal due to early planting. The only potential hazard remaining is overly wet harvest conditions. The combination of low- priced feed and favorable prices for hogs and cattle also has allowed livestock producers to enjoy a profitable year. Due to reduced acreage, large government payments to farmers, and lenders' restraint, the volume of farm loans outstanding at District commercial banks in June fell by over 15 percent from last year. The largest decline occurred in Kentucky where farm loans were off by 30 percent. Farm loan delinquencies and farm loan losses at agricultural banks improved in District states with the exception of Mississippi.