Overview Some modest improvement is apparent in Tenth District economic activity. Overall retail sales are growing slightly and new car sales are somewhat stronger. Manufacturers' purchasing agents report further price increases for inputs but materials generally remain readily available. Some limited improvement has occurred in oil exploration and development activity. Little strength is present in the housing sector. Loan demand at district banks has weakened recently. Fall crop yields are expected to be generally above average. Little expansion is evident in the livestock sector. Retail Sales A majority of respondents report sales above year-ago levels. Most also report growing sales over the past three months, though a few report constant or declining activity. Prices have been generally stable over the past three months. About half of the retailers surveyed report increasing inventories, while the rest report stable stocks. Expectations of future inventory change are also mixed. Most respondents expect stronger sales ahead. Automobile Sales Automobile dealers generally report that sales are steady to slightly stronger in August. Inventories are trim as dealers await 1988 models. Adequate financing is available for both dealer inventories and customer purchases. Dealers are hopeful that sales will be stable to up slightly during the remainder of 1987. Purchasing Agents Purchasing agents report that prices have generally increased over a year ago, with the greatest increases occurring in oil derivatives such as plastics and in textile inputs such as cotton cloth. Most respondents expect increases to level off in the next quarter. Materials are generally readily available and few problems are expected for the remainder of the year. Inventory levels are generally satisfactory with some trimming and seasonal adjustments being made. Many agents report that plants are running near capacity. Energy After tensions in the Persian Gulf pushed domestic spot prices into the $20-$22 range, reports that OPEC has been producing in excess of its quota have sent domestic prices back down to the $l8-$20 range. This volatility will likely prevent a strong rebound in the district's energy industry in the near future. But some limited improvement in exploration and development activity has been observed. The average weekly number of operating drilling rigs in the Tenth District increased from 232 in June to 273 in July, 45 percent above the year-ago level. Nevertheless, the rig count in the district remains less than one-fifth of its 1982 peak. Housing Activity and Finance District homebuilders report that housing starts remain at or above last year's levels, but generally down from a month ago. Single- family home construction remains stronger than multi-family construction. Looking ahead, homebuilders expect housing starts to stabilize. Most homebuilders report that new home sales are up and inventories are down, with house prices rising at about the rate of inflation. Builders have had no problems with materials availability and they expect none in the foreseeable future. Deposit growth at Tenth District savings institutions is reported down from a year ago. However, there has been a recent slight improvement in savings inflows. Demand for mortgage funds has been slow and is expected to remain steady or improve somewhat during the remainder of 1987. Mortgage rates, which have been to steady to firming recently, are generally expected to remain steady or increase slightly during the rest of 1987. Banking Respondents report that total loan demand fell slightly at Tenth District banks during the past month. Demand weakened slightly for commercial and industrial, consumer, and residential real estate loans. Demand fell off more sharply for commercial real estate loans, while demand for agriculture loans held steady. Respondents report no change in their prime rates, and virtually none expect any change in the near term. No changes in consumer loan rates were reported, and, again, no changes are expected. Balances in all types of deposit accounts generally remained constant, though there are scattered reports of changes, both up and down. Agriculture Fall crops are doing well across most of the Tenth District as the harvest approaches. Good moisture and warm weather combined for an excellent growing season, and corn, milo and soybean yields are expected to be above average in many parts of the district. In parts of mid-Missouri where the corn harvest has already begun, yields up to 30 percent above normal have been reported. The expectation of exceptional yields has created some concern about storage capacity around the district. Although most areas report adequate storage, some limited storage expansion is underway. In other areas, harvested crops may have to be put on the market as storage facilities are filled. There are a few signs of limited expansion in hog inventories in Kansas and Nebraska. However, most operators in the district are not expanding, afraid that currently high hog prices will not hold. Similarly, there has been little or no expansion in district cattle herds, though cattle prices remain relatively strong. Many district feedlots are currently running well below capacity, in anticipation of a large seasonal influx of feeder cattle this fall.