Summary Business activity in the Seventh District continues to expand. Contacts appear more optimistic about the near-term outlook. Purchasing managers in Chicago and Milwaukee reported further improvement in June. Total employment growth in District states from the end of 1986 to May about equaled that in the U.S., seasonally adjusted. District steel mills are operating at capacity for some products and at high levels for others. In response to slower car sales and high inventories, auto makers have cut production, but truck sales and output are strong. Contacts continue to report rising demand for some types of business equipment. Nonresidential construction is slowing in some areas, including Chicago suburbs, but continues strong in downtown Chicago and in Michigan. Residential construction has trailed 1986 since the strong first quarter, and the rest of 1987 is projected at a high level but below last year. Retail sales of seasonal merchandise have been boosted by hot weather, and home improvement products are also reported selling well. Farmland values are edging upward, reversing a six-year decline. Purchasing Managers Chicago and Milwaukee purchasing managers' reports show continued expansion in activity through June. Both groups report further increases in output, orders, and inventories, accompanied by rising prices. The Chicago report indicates slower growth of orders than earlier in the year with backlogs and employment unchanged after earlier increases. Milwaukee, in contrast, saw faster growth of orders and backlogs, and rising employment. Both reports have been more favorable this year than in 1985 and 1986, with the improvement particularly sharp in Milwaukee. Steel Chicago-area steel mills are operating at capacity for sheet products used in the automotive, appliance, and construction industries. Production of structural steel has slowed but by less than usual in the third quarter. The market for steel plate has tightened. Steel service centers have been setting sales records. Price increases have continued to be reported for various steel products, reflecting improved demand from some sectors, rebuilding of low inventories, lower imports in response to higher prices for foreign steel and the Administration's trade restraint program, and cuts in domestic steelmaking capacity due to plants being closed in recent years and not reopened. Motor Vehicles As expected, extended shutdowns for model changeovers are being scheduled in the auto industry to cut inventories. Car sales have continued to trail last year's levels. Permanent as well as temporary cutbacks in auto production are having a particularly sharp impact on industrial activity in southeast Michigan, where the industry is heavily concentrated. However, a knowledgeable contact thinks forecasts of a Michigan recession with double-digit unemployment in 1987 or 1988 are unduly pessimistic. Buyers continue to substitute vans and other light trucks for cars. Sales of heavy trucks are strong. A supplier projects a 16 percent rise in production of heavy trucks this year, to 4 percent above 1985. In contrast with cutbacks in car output, an Indiana truck plant is adding a second shift and 1,100 workers. Unions are expected to emphasize job security in negotiations on new contracts in the industry; management is expected to prefer bonus or profit-sharing plans over increases in base pay. Equipment Reports indicate rising demand for various types of equipment, but continued weakness in other lines. A producer of diesel engines is working overtime to fill orders from truck makers, and backlogs have increased. Demand for diesels from other sectors is a little stronger, except from makers of farm equipment. A steel supplier is seeing increased orders from makers of railcars (up from a very low level), construction equipment, and pressure vessels used in the chemical process industry. Buying of machine tools, volatile from month to month, remains weak, hurt by auto industry cutbacks. Nonresidential Construction Contracts for construction of nonresidential buildings in the District, in square feet, during the first half of 1987 were about even with last year. A further sizable rise in Michigan was about offset by a large decline in Illinois. Commercial construction continues strong in downtown Chicago. New large buildings continue to be announced, additional structures are being planned, and more announcements are expected. Commercial building has slowed substantially in Chicago suburbs. A steelmaker notes an upturn in buying of pipe for use in oil and gas well drilling, and strength in construction of gas pipelines. Residential Construction and Sales Construction contracts for residences in the District states during the first half were above a year earlier, in contrast with the U.S., which was lower. However, the rise in the District was entirely in the first quarter, helped by unusually mild weather. Higher mortgage interest rates since late March and uncertainties over possible future rate declines have caused potential home buyers to wait. Mortgage rates have eased since May, to 10 percent or a little lower, for 30-year fixed-rate loans. Inventories of used homes for sale in the Chicago area are low, and lending activity has slowed. A number of housing projects are expected to start soon in this area. Residential building for the rest of the year is expected to stay at a high level but below 1986. Retail Chain Store Sales Exceptionally hot weather has encouraged buying of seasonal merchandise, according to a contact at a large retailer. Sales of home improvement items have been doing well. Higher prices, particularly for women's and other apparel, have added to the dollar volume of sales. These higher prices are attributed less to the fall in the dollar than to bilateral trade agreements sharply limiting growth of U.S. apparel imports from Asian countries. Agriculture Preliminary results from our latest survey of agricultural banks show that, on average, District farmland values rose about 1.5 percent in the second quarter. Banks from each of the five District states reported on increase. This marks the second consecutive quarter of modest increases, reversing the six-year slide that extended through 1986.