The Sixth District's economy shows signs of moderate strengthening in a number of sectors. Unemployment in the Southeast continues its downward trend assisted by sizable job gains in services and a slow rebound in manufacturing. Retail sales are rising moderately, and tourism is also providing a positive impact. Construction presents a mixed picture with pockets of brisk activity interspersed among slowing areas. Prospects in agriculture appeared generally favorable at mid-July although hot, dry weather again threatened crop yields. Employment and Industry Unemployment rates continue to decline in the Sixth District. The May rate of 6.8 percent was the lowest in seven years for the region, and the downward trend apparently continued according to preliminary June reports. The largest employment gains have been posted in the service-producing sectors; however, manufacturing employment has improved steadily since the first of the year. The chemical industry is rebounding, aided by the weak dollar and low raw material costs. The recent upturn in oil prices has encouraged drilling activity, which has stimulated the oil equipment industry. Bank directors report that orders and shipments for furniture manufacturers remain strong, and consumer purchases of furniture are accelerating. Textile inventories are reported to be at acceptable levels, and many plants in the region are operating near capacity at present. Consumer Spending Retailers in the District report sales are matching modest national gains, on balance. Atlanta sales, according to some retailers, show signs of picking up. Florida is the Southeast's best performer, while Mississippi and Louisiana are the worst. Georgia, Alabama, and Tennessee are performing about on par with the nation. District car dealers report mixed trends for June and July as foreign car sales outperformed the sluggish movements of domestic cars. As in recent months, most dealers handling GM models report weak sales and unwanted inventory accumulation. One surprising bright spot emerged in New Orleans, where the stabilization of oil prices and renewed drilling activity spurred the best June car sales performance in that location in four years. Overall, the Southeast's new car registrations this year through the end of May were off by 1 percent compared to the first five months of 1986, while the nation's rate dropped by 9 percent. Construction Single-family building permits in the Sixth District (three-month average, seasonally adjusted) declined in May after holding steady for three months. However, District realtors anticipate that the softening of mortgage rates in recent weeks will boost housing activity. The spring uptick in rates discouraged residential builders and apparently priced many first-time buyers out of the market for new homes. Some have turned to lower-priced existing homes, which, contacts report, are generally selling well. Market performance varies throughout the District. Jacksonville reports strong sales, and new residential construction continues at a healthy pace in the suburbs of Jackson, Mississippi. The worst performance is reported in New Orleans, where sales are slow and prices are stagnant. The Southeast's prolonged slowdown of commercial construction has enabled markets to firm slightly. Orlando reports a decline in vacancy rates for commercial space, and prices for industrial space in Atlanta are strong. Montgomery contacts note active commercial construction. Financial Services Total loan growth at the largest commercial banks edged downward in June. Growth of both business and real estate loans slowed, while consumer loans grew only slightly. Around 50 percent of the total credit available through home equity lines is currently in use, say District bankers. While many line holders are using the credit to pay off consumer debt, many are also using it to make major purchases. Tourism Tourism throughout the Southeast is matching last year's performance. Florida leads the District as it benefits from Disney's anniversary publicity. The state's hotel occupancy rates have increased from last year. There is positive news for Mississippi in the revival of tourism In Natchez and Vicksburg and for Louisiana in the planning of the Pope's visit in September. Alabama, Georgia, and Tennessee are realizing earlier expectations of a good summer tourism season. Port Activity Rising exports are gradually offsetting the volume lost from the sluggish pace of imports at several District ports. In Miami, for example, increased exports to Latin America are more than compensating for reduced imports. In New Orleans, port revenues are up from last year, and the prospects for continuing gains in export cargo and employment are quite promising. In Savannah, exports are also gradually rising, led by higher shipments of kaolin to Europe, machinery to Brazil, and forest products to many countries. Mining The number of active oil and gas drilling rigs in the District rose sharply in early July to reach the highest level since April 1986. Most of the increase occurred in Louisiana and Alabama. The upsurge is in response to higher petroleum prices and expectations of improvement in the price of natural gas. Substantial drilling activity is occurring in the Gulf of Mexico with plans for further exploration and development. Because almost one-third of the nation's natural gas supply is located in the Gulf, this area will continue to be developed, which bodes well for southeastern seaports. For the first half of 1987, District coal production was 11 percent less than the same period of 1986, and coal prices averaged 6 percent lower. Agriculture Crop conditions in the Southeast are favorable at present, but if recent hot, dry weather continues, yields could deteriorate. The broiler industry may experience losses as prices have fallen 20 percent below a year ago in the face of slowing demand and large supplies.