Overview Economic activity in the Tenth District is continuing at a sluggish pace. Retail sales have stabilized over the past three months, but a few retailers report declines. Auto sales are steady to slightly stronger in July. Retail prices have remained steady, although manufacturers' purchasing agents continue to report moderate increases in input prices and continue to expect further slight increases. The housing industry in Oklahoma and Colorado is depressed, while other parts of the district report that housing starts are near last year's levels. The energy sector has responded only slightly to higher oil prices. Deposits and loan demand at district banks show little change. Winter wheat yields in the district were about average. Strong prices have brought little expansion in the livestock sector. Retail Sales District retailers report mixed sales, with half the respondents reporting sales above year-ago levels and half reporting sales below year-ago levels. Sales have mostly stabilized over the past three months, but a few retailers report declines. Prices have been generally constant over the past three months, and retailers expect this trend to continue for the near future. After some recent trimming, inventories are considered to be satisfactory. Most respondents express optimism for future sales. Automobile Sales Automobile dealers generally report that auto sales are steady or slightly stronger in July. Inventories are generally considered tight, and some dealers report difficulty obtaining automobile due to end-of model-year conditions. Dealers expect auto sales to remain constant or improve during the remainder of 1987. Purchasing Agents Purchasing agents report that input prices are moderately higher than last year and are expected to increase slightly during the remainder of 1987. Most agents report that material are readily available, although one purchasing agent reports problems obtaining steel. Steel will likely become easier to obtain during the remainder of the year, and few other problems obtaining materials are expected during 1987. Inventory levels are satisfactory. Energy Firming oil prices have brought some stability to the district's energy industry. A strong rebound in activity remains elusive, however, despite recent domestic spot prices in excess of $22 per barrel. Exploration and development activity in the district remains generally flat. The average weekly number of operating drilling rigs in the Tenth District fell slightly from 238 in May to 232 in June. This number compares favorably with the 200 drilling rigs operating in the district a year earlier, but remains less than one-sixth of the record set in 1982. Housing Activity and Finance Strength in the homebuilding industry varies widely across the district. Conditions in Oklahoma and Colorado are particularly depressed; other parts of the district report that housing starts are near last year's levels. Builders expect that the trends already established this year will continue. New home sales are generally steady, except for sluggishness in Colorado. Prices are generally stable. No problems are reported with either the availability or delivery of housing materials. Materials prices are stable, or up only slightly. Deposit growth at Tenth District savings institutions is reported weak for the first six months of 1987. More recently, there has been a slight improvement in savings inflows at institutions that have increased rates to levels comparable with commercial banks. Demand for mortgage funds is down, but respondents hope for slight improvement over the remainder of 1987. Mortgages rates have fallen off a little due to slack demand. Rates are expected to remain at about their current levels for the rest of 1987. Agriculture The wheat harvest is nearly complete in Oklahoma, Missouri, and Kansas and is well under way in the northern areas of the district. Yields appear to be about average, except for disappointing yields in some areas of Kansas and Oklahoma. There appears to be sufficient storage for this year's wheat crop. The corn, milo, and soybean crops are doing well throughout the district. Most district states have received good moisture and expect excellent harvest this year. There is some concern that the fall harvest may meet with isolated storage problems. Feedlots generally remain full in the Tenth District as beef prices remain strong, but no expansion in capacity is reported. There are only scattered reports of herd expansion, as operators are generally holding steady. Hog prices remain high, but bankers report continuing fear of a downturn. Consequently, operators are somewhat hesitant to expand and bankers are reluctant to finance new facilities or large increases in inventories. There are, however, a few reports of small inventory increases. Banking Reports of total loan demand and total deposits at Tenth District banks are evenly divided: one-third of the respondents report that loan demand and deposits are down, one-third report they are unchanged, and one-third report they are up. This pattern is consistent for all categories of loans except for some general decline in commercial real estate loans. As with loan demand, there are scattered reports of changes, both up and down, in each category of deposit, but the consensus clearly reflects no change in deposits. Respondents report no change in their prime rates, and none expect any change in the near term. Virtually all the respondents report no change in their consumer loan rates, and, again, no change is expected.