Summary Overall, the Twelfth District economy appears healthy, although wide variations across regions and industries exist. Trade and the services are among the strongest sectors in most areas. Manufacturing activity appears to be picking up, and the forest products industry remains strong despite the rise in interest rates that occurred last spring. The new immigration bill has caused some disruptions in the apparel and agriculture industries, although production levels do not appear to have suffered substantially. Construction activity has slowed markedly, particularly in the multi-family and nonresidential segments of the market. The higher interest rates seen this spring appear to have reduced the overall demand for mortgage financing, and many banks have changed mortgage features in order to boost demand. Consumer Spending The trade and service sectors continue to pace economic growth throughout the Twelfth District. In Tacoma, a recent survey found that 41 percent of the area's employers intended to increase staff during July, August, and September, a sharp increase from 11 percent last year. The strong demand has led to wage increases for many categories of office workers in the Puget Sound area. Tourist activity in the Puget Sound area also is reported strong, with the number of ferry passenger trips running 10 percent ahead of last year, and highway traffic up 6.5 percent. Manufacturing Several aluminum plants in Washington have come back on line after complete shutdowns, due to a combination of higher output prices, the lower value of the dollar, Increased demand generated by economic expansion during the first quarter, and accommodative pricing by the Bonneville Power Administration. In Utah, USX is reopening its Geneva steel plant. Apparel production in the Los Angeles area reportedly exceeds last year's pace, although the uncertainty generated by the new immigration bill has created problems for some producers. For example, some small apparel firms are operating below full capacity due to labor shortages, while other southern California producers reportedly have moved their plant operations to Mexico to take advantage of easier access to low-priced labor. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries In many areas, agricultural labor markets have been affected by uncertainties associated with the new immigration bill, but reports of actual crop losses have been relatively infrequent. The impact has been mitigated in most regions by strong recruiting efforts, changes in enforcement procedures, and wage increases. For example, in Washington, wages reportedly rose from $3-4 per hour to $5-6 per hour. Unusually large strawberry harvests in the Northwest and grape and tree fruit shipments In the San Joaquin Valley confirm that crop losses thus far appear to ha it been relatively minor. However, one estimate puts crop losses in Oregon due to labor shortages at $300 million to $1 billion. Several growers report that their paperwork and administrative costs have increased substantially, and many are devoting significant resources to providing documentation for workers seeking legal residency. In Washington, the upcoming apple harvest is expected to be larger than usual, which could increase labor demand and, along with possible lower product prices, create a tight squeeze on profit margins. Moreover, an Oregon rancher says that farmers of some labor-intensive crops, such as sugar beets and onions, may cut back on plantings of those crops in future years if difficulty in recruiting good workers continues. Production and profitability in the Northwest lumber industry appear to be holding up despite concerns regarding the impact of higher interest rates. The low value of the dollar continues to make U.S. exports attractive on world markets. In addition, Northwest producers' competitive positions vis-a-vis Canada have been enhanced by the 15 percent tariff on Canadian lumber exported to the U.S. and by a recent increase in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar. The industry continues to operate at or near capacity in Oregon, while strong Japanese demand for pulp is stimulating Alaska's timber industry. Construction and Real Estate Construction activity has slowed markedly in most parts of the District, with relatively mild declines in single-family construction activity exacerbating the more severe downturns in multifamily and nonresidential building. In the Seattle area, the number of housing permits currently stands 9 percent below its year- earlier level. In the Phoenix area, construction employment has dropped by about 11 percent during the past year. In Utah, multifamily construction is down 76 percent from last year and single-family starts are down 12 percent. In Alaska, which has been hard hit by oil-related weakness, real estate values reportedly have fallen by some 21 percent over the past year. Finally, in the San Diego area, one of the fastest growing regions of the country, a banker reports that new construction loans dropped 56 percent between March and June. Financial Sector The changes in financial conditions during the second quarter have tilted the mix of mortgage lending away from fixed and toward variable-rate instruments for most lenders. One California banker reports that fixed-rate mortgage business has dropped by 50 to 60 percent from the levels of early this year, raising average overhead costs, reducing profit margins, and leading to a virtual price war over ARMs. However, a Seattle-area banker reports no such change, arguing that buyers are doing all they can to qualify for fixed-rate instruments. The rise in rates has squeezed many banks' profit margins, and the decrease in buying activity has reduced mortgage fee income as well. Some larger banks have developed new mortgage products to boost demand. Innovations include lower mortgage fees, longer loan rate commitments, shorter maturities, balloon mortgages, bimonthly and biweekly payment plans, and ARMs that are convertible to fixed rates at some point early in the life of the mortgage.