Summary Seventh District economic growth remained strong in October and November. Retail sales seemed to grow at about the same pace or slightly higher than in previous months on a seasonally adjusted basis; durable goods continued to lead overall sales growth, while the tardy arrival of cold weather prompted greater strength in seasonal apparel sales. Manufacturing activity generally remained robust, although some durable goods producers expectations for domestic sales gains in 1995 have been tempered in recent months. District labor markets continued to tighten up, and reports of labor shortages remained relatively widespread. Discussions with retailers, manufacturers and a wide range of staffing services firms revealed a greater frequency of reports of wage pressures in permanent positions, albeit for a subset of occupations and geographic areas. Reports of price increases remained concentrated in crude goods and intermediate materials. Retailing Retail sales growth seemed to strengthen further in recent weeks, after the underlying trend gathered momentum late in the third quarter. Reports from several large retail chains and shopping malls suggest that the holiday sales season began on a vigorous note, with full parking lots and high sales levels. One retail association stated that "things have been going great;" sales for the holiday season were previously forecast to rise 6 percent, but sales gains in the membership over the past week seem to have been significantly above that expectation. A survey by a check processing firm showed a stronger year-over-year same-store sales gain in the Midwest for the day after Thanksgiving than the survey had been showing in previous months. Several retailing contacts reported high sales levels for seasonal durable goods like snowblowers and car batteries, after the late-developing but harsh winter last year caught many consumers unprepared. One large retail chain noted that apparel sales rose significantly in recent weeks; unseasonably warm weather held back seasonal apparel sales in October and masked stronger gains in other apparel and home fashions lines within its overall mix. Another large retailer reported that apparel sales remained relatively weak in those regions of the country where warm weather continued to linger, while apparel sales in most District states picked up with the belated onset of colder weather. Nationally, this contact stated that sales over the past week have been "fabulous," with year-over- year growth well in excess of the growth for the month of November as a whole. A continuing large majority of Michigan retailers surveyed in November reported year-over-year sales growth, while an even larger share of respondents expected further gains over the next three months. Manufacturing District industrial activity remained robust. Production readings from the Chicago and Milwaukee purchasing managers' surveys remained quite vigorous during September and October, while the Detroit survey showed new strengthening. Surveys conducted in western Michigan have been depicting some of the strongest results in the District, and these surveys showed even greater momentum in September and into late October. In November, the production component of the Chicago survey showed faster growth than September and October. Large automakers reported that sales closure rates improved in recent months, after slipping during the summer. Showroom traffic continued to run at high levels for this time of the year, and dealer orders reportedly accelerated during October and early November. Heavy-duty truck build plans for the fourth quarter have been on the rise in recent months after slipping in the third quarter. A large steel producer shipped its highest volume for a third quarter since 1981, and total steel production in the region showed stronger year-over-year gains in October and November than in previous months. This steel manufacturer's materials distribution group reported that the Midwest and the South continue to be its strongest geographical areas. A large cement producer stated that interest rate increases have not yet had a noticeable affect on its own market, with residential deliveries still "doing very well, and better than last year." A large manufacturer of gypsum wallboard reported that industry shipments have been running at a record level during 1994. This company expects housing starts in 1995 to run even with 1994, but with a larger multifamily component, which use less wallboard and could dampen overall shipments. Several durable goods manufacturers expected slower growth in domestic markets during 1995. At the same time, a number of heavy equipment producers noted increased sales to Europe, and these contacts expect greater export gains to help offset slowing growth in domestic markets during 1995. Labor Markets District labor markets continued to tighten, and discussions with many staffing services firms revealed a somewhat greater frequency of reports of wage pressures for permanent positions than in previous months. Among those staffing firms that reported little change in compensation for permanent positions, several expected greater pressure in early 1995. However, some staffing services stressed that organizational restructuring and technological advances continue to weigh on job opportunities and salaries for a significant portion of the overall workforce. Shortages and wage pressures seem to be centered in light industrial, construction, and entry-level retail occupations, although one large retail chain stated that it hasn't been any more difficult to attract seasonal labor for the current holiday season than it was in 1992 and 1993. Temporary help companies have been reporting wage increases for the past several quarters, and one temporary help company stated that "orders we used to he able to fill in two or three days, now it takes two or three weeks." Another staffing services firm reported that the price of help-wanted radio advertising space has risen in recent months. An engineering firm in a robust area of the District reported that construction has been moving at a very slow pace on individual projects, due to the shortage of skilled labor. This contact stated that customers of construction contractors are bidding against one another in order to get priority for project completions, and new contract prices are also moving higher. An auto supplier stated that a scarcity of production workers has curbed the firm's ability to add a third production shift, and a staffing services firm believed that labor shortages have played a role in auto component shortages. A number of managers of fast-food restaurants located in relatively strong areas of the District expressed heightened concern about labor shortages, with one busy manager stating "I've got to get back to work, we're short two people as I speak." While a majority of these restaurants reported that wages have risen, none of them reported higher menu prices. Prices Price increases remained centered in commodities and industrial materials. A wide range of respondents to area purchasing managers' surveys continued to comment about shortages, capacity constraints, demands for shorter lead times, planning difficulties for work-in- process inventory, and higher input prices generally. In November, the prices-paid component of the Chicago purchasing managers' survey climbed to its highest level since late 1988. A steel consumer expressed concern that faster growth in Europe would reduce supplies of imported steel next year, adding further upward pressure to steel prices. A large cement manufacturer stated that its baseline cement prices are slated to rise roughly 6 percent at the beginning of 1995, although this represents a smaller hike than the last baseline increase in April. Cement allocation restrictions have been shrinking in recent months. Evidence of greater inflation in retail prices remained relatively scarce. Most retailing contacts continued to stress that price competition remains intense, with little change in overall prices reported even among those retailers experiencing increased labor shortages and higher wages. One large retail chain stated that department stores "seem to be running a little more promotional than people might have expected a few months ago." Another large chain concentrated in apparel stated that price increases have played "no role whatsoever" in same-store sates gains in recent months. "We've had a lot of threats, but very few suppliers have really had the guts to try to put anything through."