Overview According to business contacts, the Southeast economy grew at a healthy pace through the end of November, although recent year-over- year gains have been smaller than they were earlier in the year. The holiday shopping season got off to a good start over the Thanksgiving weekend, with most retailers reporting that sales had met or exceeded their optimistic expectations. Tourism and business travel remain above year-ago levels in most of the District, and recent reports indicate that many Florida tourist markets have begun to see a rebound. Factory activity in the District was reported to be mixed, with strength in some industries offsetting weakness in others. Single-family home sales and construction slowed on a year- over-yen basis in November, but multifamily and commercial construction continued to show improvement. Reports of increasing wage pressures have become more frequent in the last month, and firms in a growing number of industries say that they are having difficulty finding qualified workers. Although many contacts continue to report rising raw materials prices, most producers continue to indicate that they have not raised prices of their own products. Consumer Spending A majority of the District retailers contacted after the Thanksgiving holiday weekend said that sales generally had met or exceeded their expectations. The strongest selling items were reported to be gift items and home-related products, although apparel sales also were relatively brisk. Retailers generally said they expect holiday sales to exceed last year's levels by between 5 and 7 percent. However, several retailers predicted that December sales will be dominated by promotions and discounts similar to those offered during the last several years. Although most retailers said that unexpectedly pleasant weather put a damper on sales in early November, the return of cooler weather in the second half of the month brought shoppers back into the stores. Auto sales around the District were said to be flat with some dealers noting year-over- year declines. Manufacturing Reports from manufacturers were somewhat mixed in November, with weakness in a few industries offset by strength in the majority of others. At the same time, most firms indicated that they were optimistic about their prospects for the next six months. Firms in the paper, wood, chemicals, and aluminum industries all continued to report increasing levels of current activity. Auto makers and auto parts suppliers again commented on strong demand for their products. Although many District manufacturers of lumber and other building materials said that they were operating as near capacity, several firms indicated that current shipments have begun to slow. Firms producing home appliances, heating and cooling equipment, and carpeting also noted a slowdown in current shipments, although several carpet producers reported that exports had begun to pick up. Reports from the apparel industry, however, were much less positive, with most firms reporting declines in output as well as the factory workweek and payrolls. Tourism and Business Travel Tourist and business travel remain a bright spot in the District economy. Hotel occupancy rates were reported to be well above year- ago levels in Atlanta, Nashville, and New Orleans, while tourism along the Gulf coast continues to flourish. Although tourist travel to many Florida destinations remains below year-ago levels, winter bookings were reported to be up, particularly from Latin American and Canadian visitors. Several major resort areas in Florida recently have announced expansion plans aimed at reversing the attendance slump of the last year. Construction Single-family home sales and construction slowed throughout the District in November; however, real estate agents emphasized that the level of activity in most market areas remains near the strong year-ago performance. Builders reported that new home inventories have begun to increase slightly, and home prices generally have stabilized. Some realtors have begun to report price concessions on the part of sellers. Looking forward, realtors and builders generally expect the pace of home sales and construction to decline in 1995, although overall activity is expected to remain relatively high. In multifamily and commercial real estate marks by contrast, real estate agents continue to report improving conditions. Apartment occupancy levels were described as extremely high in many District market areas. Apartment rental rates have continued to rise, and in recent weeks plans for several new multifamily developments were announced. Commercial realtors also reported falling vacancy rates and improved leasing of industrial, office, and retail space. Commercial construction has accelerated in many areas of the District. However, shortages of qualified labor continue to push building costs up. Financial Services Reports on loan demand from bankers in the District were mixed in November. While some contacts noted that the demand for home mortgage lending had declined substantially, others reported increased commercial and industrial lending. Consumer loan demand was generally described as flat, while auto lending declined modestly. Several banks noted that the competition for loans remains fierce. Both commercial and consumer loan default rates remain near lows for the past decade. Wages and Prices Wage pressures were again described as on the rise amid tightening labor markets. In addition to the construction sector, food service and retail establishments have begun to report difficulty in filling available positions. This has been particularly true of retailers who have sought to hire temporary employees for the holiday shopping season. As a result, an increasing number of firms report that they have had to offer wage increases in order both to attract new workers, as well as to retain current employees. According to manufacturers, raw materials prices also continue to rise. However, many firms reported that they have not been able to increase their prices because of intense competition. Although most retailers concurred that competitive pressures have kept a lid on price increases to this point, many indicated that they expect their suppliers to increase prices on many items after the first of the year.