The First District economy continues its gradual recovery, with manufacturers reporting more widespread gains than retailers. Both sectors face selected price increases. The region's commercial real estate market is moving ahead, but at an uneven pace. Retail Most retail contacts in the First District report stronger sales growth in October (from a year earlier) than in early November. November's slower growth rate was attributed to warm weather and the elections. Retailers expect moderate holiday sales growth in New England. The majority anticipate December sales no more than 5 percent higher than a year ago. Inventories are higher than last month, in preparation for the holiday season; however, retailers are planning only modest increases in staff, if any, in December. Over the next six months, building and hardware contacts expect sales to decline 5 percent, because of higher interest rates. They report 5 to 10 percent increases in the cost of building materials, paint, insulation, and lumber, which they are passing on to customers. Other retail contacts report stable prices, except for cotton and corrugated cardboard. Gross margins and profits vary considerably among retailers. This year's wage increases ranged from 3 to 5 percent. Only one retail contact reports major capital spending plans for 1995. Manufacturing First District manufacturers report that recant revenues are ahead of last year's levels, with double-digit increases for consumer durables, newer types of computer equipment, and some construction- related products, and single-digit increases for printed matter and paper goods. Contacts report a recent pickup in machine tool orders, after several years of weakness. Sales of medical instruments also appear to be firming up. Demand for apparel-related textiles has been erratic, while aerospace markets remain soft. Contacts note sharp cost increases for paper products, polyethylene, alcohol-based products, and wool; costs have also risen noticeably for a variety of metals, other chemicals, and lumber. About one-half of the manufacturing respondents have raised or intend to raise their prices by between 2 and 6 percent, but makers of machinery and equipment are maintaining or reducing selling prices. Employment trends over the past year have been mixed, but downsizing efforts appear to be nearing completion, and about one-half of the respondents anticipate making net new hires in the months ahead. Several contacts in New Hampshire and Vermont mention that it is becoming more difficult to hire and retain workers. Wage and salary increases mostly hover around 3 to 4 percent, but are lower for some companies facing weak demand and higher for some highly productive workers. Most contacts are at least guardedly optimistic about their company's business prospects in the next six to 12 months, citing factors such as momentum in the U.S. economy, prospects for improved exports to Europe, and successful strategies by their firm. A couple indicate that higher interest rates are reducing their company's earnings, and some express longer-term worries about cost pressures or a downturn in consumer spending. Commercial Real Estate and Construction The commercial real estate market continues to recover in most parts of the region, but the pace is uneven across property types. Contacts in southern New England note that retail real estate is particularly "hot," with growth coming from large national chains, while the industrial and apartment markets also are strong. On the down side, vacancy rates for office buildings in downtown Providence and Hartford exceed 20 percent and contacts expect little change in the near future. Office markets in the Boston and Portland areas have recovered more quickly, with effective downtown vacancy rates below 10 percent in Boston. New office construction is expected in the Boston and Providence suburbs. Office rents in the region are mostly flat, but increasing slightly in the growing markets. Respondents note that rising interest rates are having little effect on new deals, with one contact seeing a surplus of capital looking to invest in real estate. Nonbank Financial Services Sixty percent of contacted investment management companies report small increases in assets under management since this summer. The remainder have experienced reductions and cite net outflows from bond funds and declines in the market value of their portfolios. Despite the market downturn, all respondents report either stable employment levels or continued hiring in the third quarter and for the remainder of the year. However, several contacts have scaled back their hiring plans from the beginning of the year.