Overview The Tenth District economy continues to grow at a healthy pace. Retail sales increased over the past month, and manufacturers continue to operate at high levels of capacity. District energy activity improved slightly, although homebuilding activity continues to slow. In the farm sector, conditions remain good for crop producers but somewhat less favorable for cattle producers. While the supply of skilled labor is tight across most parts of the district, only a few manufacturers and a few builders report upward pressure on wages. Retail prices remain stable, while the prices of some manufacturers' inputs are up slightly from a year ago. Retail Sales District retailers report that sales have increased from last month and a year ago. Sales of home furnishings and men's apparel remain notably strong. Most district retailers are satisfied with current inventory levels after increasing their stocks over the past month. Retailers expect holiday sales to be significantly higher than last year. Auto dealers report that, while sales were off slightly during the past month, sales are expected to increase over the next few months. Financing is available for both dealers and buyers. Dealers are generally maintaining steady inventory levels. Manufacturing Most firms are operating at high capacity levels. Most agents continue to report shortages of skilled labor. Several agents report longer lead times but do not expect significant problems in obtaining materials during the next few months. Firms are generally satisfied with their inventory levels. Energy Drilling activity in the district improved slightly in October and the first two weeks of November. Crude oil prices helped, moving slightly higher in recent weeks. But energy activity across large parts of the district remains dampened by low natural gas prices. Housing Most builders report a decline in housing starts from last month and a year ago. Moreover, most builders expect building activity to continue cooling off during the coming months. Sales of new homes have picked up somewhat over the last month but are below their year-ago pace. Builders in most parts of the district report materials are generally available with few delays. Mortgage demand continues to decline as interest rates climb. Most lenders expect demand to remain sluggish in the months ahead. Banking Loan demand last month rose at almost all reporting banks. Most banks report higher demand for commercial and industrial loans, consumer loans, and commercial real estate loans. Demand was down for home mortgage loans, flat for home equity loans, and mixed for residential construction loans and agricultural loans. Loan-deposit ratios were up from the previous month, and security investments were down. All respondents raised their prime rate last month, and most expect to raise the rate again in the near term. All banks raised their consumer lending rates last month, and almost all anticipate further increases in the near future. Lending standards were unchanged. Deposits last month were flat to up at most banks. Most respondents report increases in demand deposits. NOW accounts were constant to up, while large CDs were constant to down. Money market deposit accounts and small time and savings deposits were both mixed, with about equal numbers of respondents reporting increases and decreases. Agriculture Harvest of the district's corn and soybean crops is nearly complete, with farmers in much of the district harvesting the biggest crops on record. The district's winter wheat crop is generally in good condition. Large supplies of red meat and poultry are holding down livestock prices and clouding the outlook for district livestock production. Lower feed costs and somewhat stronger fed cattle prices have trimmed losses to near break-even levels in most cattle feedlots. But a sharp decline in feeder cattle prices has pushed down profits on ranches. Meanwhile, low hog prices have triggered the liquidation of hog herds by some small-scale producers. Despite the downturn in livestock earnings, bankers report their farm loan portfolios generally remain in good condition. Prices and wages Retail prices remain stable and are generally expected to remain constant over the next three months. Manufacturers' purchasing agents report input prices are flat to slightly higher than a year ago, and most expect input prices to rise slightly in the months ahead. Despite widespread tightness in markets for skilled labor, only a few manufacturers report upward pressure on wages. New home prices have been stable over the last month but remain above year- ago levels. A few builders report an increase in prices of certain materials such as sheetrock and lumber. While construction wages have generally remained stable, a few builders report higher costs for skilled workers such as carpenters.