Summary Continued growth and tightening labor markets are the norm in most areas. Consumer spending is relatively strong in most parts of the District, and retailers expect strong sales during the holiday season. Tight labor markets are making it increasingly difficult for firms to find qualified workers, and many contacts report increasing wage pressures. Residential construction continues to slow in some markets, although commercial construction is picking up in several areas. Loan demand is still fairly strong in most parts of the District. Record crops have created storage problems in some areas. Consumer Spending District retailers report recent sales at or above their year-ago pace, with sales growth exceeding expectations in many cases. Strong local economies are cited by retailers as the principal reason for strong sales. Most retailers say discounting has not been a factor in generating these sales increases; some, in fact, expect prices to rise as the holidays approach. Most retailers report that holiday staffing and inventories are at desired levels. Contacts at discounters, specialty stores and department stores around the District report brisk holiday traffic and sales during the weekend after Thanksgiving. District car dealers report mixed sales activity. Some dealers are still experiencing falling sales because of lack of inventory, while others are experiencing double-digit sales increases. Prices of most 1995 models have increased relative to their 1994 counterparts, although some dealers report that these increases are being absorbed in dealer costs rather than being passed on to consumers. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity A growing number of contacts in the District report increasingly tight labor markets, making it more difficult for firms to find qualified workers. In most parts of the District, construction workers are increasingly scarce. In southern Indiana and parts of Arkansas, Kentucky and Tennessee, contacts report increased wage pressures because of the tight markets. In some instances, fast food restaurants and entry-level positions at other firms are paying up to $7 an hour. In many areas, unemployment rates have recently reached 20-year lows. A quarterly employment outlook survey projects further employment gains in the St. Louis metropolitan area through the first quarter of 1995. Most District industries surveyed report increased sales in recent months. For example, a maker of concrete products reports that October figures show sales up 30 percent over last year. In addition, this contact reports that demand has not followed the normal seasonal pattern: Strong residential housing demand is keeping demand for building materials unseasonably high. Similarly, a District brick manufacturer currently has one-third of its annual production on back order, which is more than usual, especially for this time of year. A glass container manufacturer reports that October sales were up 8 percent over last year, and a contact in the footwear industry reports a 1.5 percent increase during October but a 15 percent increase year-to-date. A maker of car exhaust systems reports that automakers' just-in-time inventories keep this company operating around the clock to keep up with demand. In general, contacts throughout Arkansas and the Louisville, Memphis and St. Louis metropolitan areas all report healthy economic growth. Some contacts, however, are not as positive. A maker of corrugated boxes reports October sales were down 6 percent, although year-to- date sales are still up 10 percent. A contact in northeast Mississippi reports an overall softening in the region's economy; he cites not-so-upbeat reports from computer and office suppliers, who expect some slowing over the next six months, partly because of rising interest rates. Construction and Real Estate Residential real estate markets have changed little since the last report: Some areas are still experiencing strong growth in permits and sales, while other areas are noticeably weaker. Most contacts expect the effects of rising interest rates on permits and sales to be substantial by mid-1995. Several areas in the District are experiencing new construction in multifamily housing, which had been dormant since the mid-to-late 1980s. Commercial construction is also picking up strength in parts of the District. Banking and Finance District bankers continue to report relatively strong consumer and commercial loan demand. Strength in auto sales and accompanying auto loans is responsible for much of the growth in consumer loans. Several loan officers from the District's largest banks report strengthening in demand for loans to small businesses, which they attribute to increased plant and equipment spending needs and inventory financing. Agriculture and Natural Resources Despite substantial rainfall that slowed the pace of the fall harvest in many areas, most contacts report little crop damage, with most still expecting record or near-record crops. These large crops have created storage problems in some areas, forcing many facilities to store crops on the ground or to construct temporary facilities. Many livestock producers report that cattle and hog prices have fallen below their costs, although they note that low grain prices have ameliorated their losses somewhat.