Overview Economic activity in the Fifth District grew moderately in late October and November. Areas experiencing growth included the service-producing sector, commercial real estate, ports, and state revenues. Consumer spending was up slightly, but very strong holiday sales were expected. Manufacturing, tourist, and agricultural activity were flat and housing activity and loan demand declined. Consumer Spending Retailers, retail associations, and retail analysts contacted by telephone reported increased activity in November, and they expected sales during the upcoming holiday season to exceed last year's robust level. Contacts indicated that November retail sales increased because of weekend promotions. There was disagreement, however, over whether consumers began holiday shopping earlier than normal. Looking ahead, retailers expected December sales of computers and other electronics to be strong. They also expected good winter apparel sales in December, even though such sales were weak in November. Service-Producing Firms Respondents to a mail survey indicated that activity in the service- producing sector increased in October. Revenues rose, except in business services, where they decreased. Wages also rose, and employment changed little except in the wholesale sector, where it increased. Service producers indicated that prices rose 0.4 percent in October. They expected increased demand for their services and an increase of 1.1 percent in their prices during the next six months. Manufacturing Indicators of factory activity changed little in October from their September levels, according to a mail survey of District manufacturers. Capital expenditures were up compared to six months ago, and respondents expected a further increase during the next six months. Manufacturers expected shipments and employment to increase during the next six months, but they anticipated little change in the workweek. Finished goods and raw materials prices increased faster in October than in September but at rates less than the general inflation rate. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity experienced its usual November slowdown. Contacts from mountain areas expected tourist activity this winter to exceed last year's level as long as the areas received normal amounts of snow. Rates for some rooms, meals, and activities were expected to increase more this winter than last winter. Ports Representatives at the District ports of Baltimore and Charleston indicated that export levels in October were higher than those of September and a year ago: import levels remained about the same. The port representatives expected that during the next six months both exports and imports would increase and exports would grow faster than imports. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone reported that loan demand slowed during late October and the first three weeks of November. Consumer loan demand fell sharply, while commercial and mortgage loan demand declined slightly. Interest rates were higher on consumer, commercial, and mortgage loans. Looking ahead, most lenders contacted were cautious about future loan demand. Some consumer and commercial lenders in North Carolina, however, were confident that loan demand in their areas would remain strong. Residential Real Estate According to a telephone survey of District realtors and builders, residential real estate activity declined during the four weeks preceding Thanksgiving. Building permits and buyer traffic decreased. Home sales also decreased, except in West Virginia, where contacts reported an increase in sales of lower-priced homes following the introduction of a state program providing low-interest mortgages. Builders indicated that they started fewer houses after the recent rise in mortgage rates. Home prices remained stable, although subcontractor wages increased in West Virginia, South Carolina, and North Carolina. Commercial Real Estate District contacts reported that commercial real estate activity in November grew at the same pace as in October. Real estate contacts reported little change in construction, except in North Carolina, where speculative construction increased. Commercial vacancy rates, however, declined throughout the District. Posted commercial rental rates remained steady, except in the District of Columbia, where they rose. Real estate contacts reported that fewer landlord concessions were available to tenants, and they anticipated rental rate increases soon. Leasing agents reported that the availability of prime office space tightened in the District of Columbia, South Carolina, and North Carolina. Those in Charlotte, N.C., and Columbia, S.C., said the shortages in their areas existed even for less-than-prime office space. State Revenues State government forecasters said that tax collections grew moderately in October. Real revenue growth declined in South Carolina but picked up significantly in Maryland and slightly in the District of Columbia. Growth remained strong in North Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia. Agriculture Agricultural activity progressed at the same rate as a year ago, according to District farm analysts. Fall harvesting activity for most crops neared completion, but rain delayed cotton harvesting in some areas of the District. Crop yields were strong. Fall small- grains planting activity was comparable to that of a year ago, and the crops' condition was good in all District states except South Carolina, where crop growth was off to a slow start.