(Page 1 missing) Regional auto sales have continued to show the strength evident in previous months. Large domestic automakers report that monthly vehicle sales increased 50 percent between February and April. One large automaker reports that both auto and truck sales were up substantially from comparable 1983 levels and that current inventories are low. Corroborating this, Bank directors report good to strong sales in the cities within Montana, the Dakotas, and western Wisconsin. While home buying increased in the first quarter of 1984, March sales failed to match the very high level of March 1983. In the Twin Cities, both unit and dollar sales were between 10 and 20 percent below year-ago levels in March, whereas in January and February sales had been between l0 and 20 percent above year-ago levels. Scattered reports indicate, though, that home sales remained good in other parts of the district, including Fargo, North Dakota, and western Wisconsin. Employment Labor market conditions have continued to improve. The seasonally unadjusted unemployment rate in Minnesota fell from 7.9 percent in January to 7.1 percent in March, despite an increase in the labor force. Employment growth has been particularly robust in the Twin Cities area, which has now regained the jobs lost during the recession. Also, initial unemployment claims in Minnesota were 28 percent lower this March than last. In Minneapolis, the help wanted advertising index for February was more than double its level last February. Improvement was also noted in other parts of the district. The unemployment rate in west central Wisconsin fell from 10.7 percent in January to 10.1 percent in February. The unemployment rate in the Fargo, North Dakota, area also fell between those months, from 5.1 percent to 4.6 percent. Meanwhile, the unemployment rate in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan remained over 20 percent, but the recently announced construction of a large paper mill should help in the future. Agriculture The generally gloomy agriculture picture described in our last report has brightened only a little lately. Dairy farmers are still having problems in Minnesota and western Wisconsin, and the federal dairy diversion program is not expected to help much. Farm auctions and loan delinquencies are prevalent. Cropland values continue to fall in South Dakota. Moisture conditions are below normal in parts of Montana, hurting the prospects for the winter wheat harvest. Farm equipment sales continue to be slow. Some comfort can be taken from the recent 1 percent rise Minnesota's farm price index, from scattered reports of increased land prices, and from the continuing strength in livestock markets. Resource-Related Industries Signs of improvement have been visible in several resource-related industries. Due to increased demand, all taconite plants in Minnesota are now operating, albeit at an average of only 53 percent of capacity. Two plants are running at 75 percent of capacity in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Coal production is up in Montana, but no new mines are foreseen there or in North Dakota. Oil production is picking up in Montana and may be picking up in North Dakota. Oil lease prices are higher in Montana now than a year ago. Wood product sales are continuing to build throughout the district. Waferboard plants are running constantly, and prices have firmed. Paper production is still high in the district, and a large new mill is being built in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Finance Neither total loans nor total deposits appear to have changed much early this year. Commercial and industrial loans at banks in the Ninth District rose a bit in February and fell a bit in March, leaving the level about the same. Deposits at savings and loan associations in Minnesota fell slightly in February. Deposits have been fairly stable in rural areas recently. Still, both loans and deposits were around 10 percent higher than a year ago in the first quarter. Variation is seen among other loan categories. Consumer loans have reportedly increased a bit in North Dakota and southern Minnesota. However, agricultural lending has been fairly flat, partly because of the higher cost of money in rural areas where incomes are depressed. Banks are keeping fairly liquid in most rural areas of Montana, where few good lending opportunities exist.