Summary Economic activity in the Fourth District continues to increase, but labor market conditions remain weaker than in the nation. Retail sales improved in April from March, but gains for the March-April period are smaller than for the previous two months. Output and prices in manufacturing continue to rise, and some primary metals and automotive production lines are operating at capacity. Housing construction and sales remain strong. Strike-hedge demand for coal is rising. Business loan demand remains strong at commercial banks. District Labor Market Conditions Despite steady recovery, labor market conditions in this District remain weaker than in the nation. A banker estimates the unemployment rate for eastern Kentucky to be 16 percent. Ohio's unemployment rate in March was 3.1 percentage points below its year- earlier level but was still 2.4 percentage points above the national rate. Nevertheless, the average workweek in Ohio manufacturing increased 0.2 hours to 42.6 hours (n.s.a.) in March, after two months of declines, and the average workweek in automobile manufacturing increased to 46.2 hours, the highest since December 1978. Unemployment rates in eleven major metropolitan areas in this District in February ranged from 7.6 percent in Columbus to 13.3 percent in Pittsburgh. An index of leading indicator, for the Pittsburgh area has risen strongly in the last few months following a slowdown last autumn, suggesting substantial employment gains in the months ahead. Retail Sales Retail sales recovered briskly in April from the previous month's slump. General merchandisers contacted, however, report less than 10 percent year-over-year gain for the March-April period as compared with increases of about 11 percent to 12 percent in the previous two months. Much of the April strength was concentrated in soft goods, especially apparel. New cars sales remained quite strong in April. Both domestic and import dealers report solid, across-the-board sales strength, which is expected to persist through the reminder of the quarter. Shortages were reported for some larger size models, and the waiting period for some import models has lengthened to about eight weeks. Manufacturing Output and prices continue to rise. This Bank's survey of Fourth District manufacturers indicates that firms expected shipments to rise in April but at a slower pace than in March. A survey of northeastern Ohio purchasing managers indicates production and new orders rose again in April. Two-thirds of the respondents report prices paid are higher than a month ago, and none report lower prices. A survey of Cincinnati area purchasing managers indicates vendor performance is continuing to deteriorate while prices paid are rising. A major auto producer reports difficulty adding to production schedules that are at capacity for mid- and standard-size cars. Primary Metals Demand for sheet steel and aluminum remains strong. A major steel producer reports that production is at capacity for sheet steel, which is used primarily in automobiles. The firm suggests demand for sheet steel may not increase further because automobile production has peaked and steel imports are readily available. Area steel producers report growing demand from the capital goods sector. A major aluminum producer's fabricating facilities have been operating at capacity for a year. The firm is allocating supplies of aluminum sheet among customers for June and July deliveries because demand exceeds production capacity. The firm's smelters have been operating at capacity since autumn; however, some high cost smelters are closed and won't reopen unless aluminum prices increase by about two-thirds. World market prices of ingot aluminum have declined in the last three months despite apparent tight supplies, a phenomenon the firm cannot explain. World supplies of bauxite and aluminum are reported to be ample. Housing House construction and sales remain strong but are sensitive to interest rates. Builders of single-family homes report that construction activity during the first quarter of 1984 was up from a year ago, and barring a further rise in interest rates, construction in 1984 would match or possibly exceed last year's total. The "move- up" market remains strong and demand by first-time buyers is being bolstered by expectations that interest rates will edge up steadily as the year matures. Realtors, who reported record earnings in 1983, are currently experiencing a strong sales pace; even if interest rates rise slightly, they expect a fairly good housing market for the balance of 1984. Lenders recently experienced a decline in mortgage applications. Applications for fixed-rate mortgages fell, but are being partially replaced by applications for adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs). Lenders say ARMs will keep the market buoyant until initial ARM rates reach the 13 percent - 13 1/2 percent range, which lenders now consider the "tolerance" rate. Coal Coal prices are rising and demand and shipments are increasing in eastern Kentucky. Utilities are reported to be increasing stockpiles as a hedge against a strike when the United Mine Workers' contract expires on September 30. Commercial Banking Loan demand remained strong at Fourth District banks in recent weeks. Business lending led the way and is expected to remain strong throughout the year. Consumer loans also increased, particularly auto loans. Bankers expect the pace of consumer lending to taper off somewhat, but expect overall loan demand to remain quite strong in the months ahead. Net deposit inflows have been relatively flat with the lack of growth partly attributed to the April 15th tax deadline. Loans have been financed to a large extent with borrowed and purchased funds, and from the sale of government securities. Bankers expect deposit growth to pick up moderately in the next two months.