Overview Although there are some indications that the rate of expansion of the District economy has slowed, activity continues to increase. Also, at least a portion of the perceived slowing is attributed to recent weather conditions. Construction and agriculture, especially, have been hampered. On other fronts, industrial activity, retail sales, and mining remain robust, as do the underlying trends in commercial and residential construction. District coal production also continues to run well ahead of year earlier levels. In general, loan demand is also growing, but financial institutions appear capable of absorbing significant additional loan growth, especially if deposit forecasts come close to the mark. Manufacturing After allowance for seasonal factors, manufacturing activity appears to be still expanding generally. Shipments, orders, and order backlogs all showed further growth over the past several weeks, although the improvement was more narrowly based than in the previous few months. Manufacturing employment also seems to have gained, and the length of the average work week may have risen sharply. Our information indicates little change in manufacturers' inventories over the past month or so, only some very modest accumulation in raw materials. Most of our respondents still find current stocks at comfortable levels, although a few report them excessive. There is some sentiment for expanding inventories if sales continue to rise, but little expectation of a significant accumulation in the near future. In general, current plant and equipment capacity is considered about right. There is occasional mention, however, of plants or industries facing possible short-term constraints. In particular, the paper industry and some of its customers, such as the gypsum wall board industry, may be near capacity. Isolated plants in the textile, furniture, automobile, and printing industries are also cited as examples. Consumer Spending Sales of general merchandise lines have made further headway in recent weeks despite some purportedly seasonal weakness in apparel and related products. It is generally felt that subsequent periods will make up for this weakness. Automobiles may also have gone through a lull, but continued improvement is widely expected. Other consumer durables such as furniture and appliances continue to do quite well, perhaps even gaining a larger share of total sales. Retailers do report some inventory accumulation recently, but are generally comfortable with current stocks, as they are with the present number and size of outlets. Also, employment by retailers appears to have expanded over the past four to six weeks. Housing and Construction Adverse weather conditions have undoubtedly resulted in lost production in the construction sector since mid-March, and measured activity will certainly reflect this. Underlying trends in the industry remain strongly positive, however, and widely-held expectations are that the recovery will continue when weather permits. Both commercial and residential construction appear very strong if gauged by projects in various stages: plans, announcements, permits, starts, in progress, etc. Nearly all the evidence points to continued strength in the industry. In addition, house sales are still quite strong. Banking and Finance Loan demand at District financial institutions has grown somewhat more rapidly in recent weeks than earlier in the year, particularly on the business side. Nonetheless, consumer installment and residential mortgage activity remain strong. Financial institutions have the capacity to accommodate further loan growth, and many project that deposit growth will outstrip the expansion of loan demand in coming months. Agriculture Unseasonably wet weather during March and April has delayed farmers' plantings, possibly causing a shift from corn to soybeans for some. Avian influenza, which inflicted heavy losses on Virginia's poultry industry in the Shenandoah Valley last winter is continuing to plague turkey growers with sporadic outbreaks, resulting in sizeable economic losses. On the input side, farm production expenses are expected to increase only 2-4 percent in the current year, which, coupled with stronger expected product prices, is causing some optimism concerning farmers' profit positions this year. The Outlook The outlook around the District certainly remains positive, but is somewhat less ebullient than in recent months. There is no sense of an impending contraction, but more observers seem to see less and less capacity and opportunity for further growth.