The Twelfth District economy appears to be growing at a slower rate than earlier this year but still to be outperforming the nation. Consumer spending strengthened in April, with rising interest rates reported to have had no dampening effect or durable goods sales. Western homebuilding activity has slowed since January, but remains far stronger relative to a year ago than nationally. Nonresidential construction activity continues to pick up, but there is some concern that vacancy rates in office and commercial buildings are rising. In the manufacturing sector, employment and output generally continue to grow but at a slower rate, partly due to the effects of the housing slowdown on such industries as lumber and the near full capacity operations reached in a few industries such as aluminum and paper. In California, agricultural crop growing and demand conditions generally are considerably better than a year ago, but wheat farmers in the Pacific Northwest are experiencing another difficult year. Loan demand at Twelfth District banks has continued at a strong pace despite higher interest rates. Consumer Spending Consumer spending appears to have increased more than seasonally during April. Major department stores in Southern California, for example, experienced an average 11 percent year-to-year gain in sales during the first half of April compared with a 10 percent rate of growth for all of March. In other Western states, sales also increased, although the year-to-year gain was not as large. Sales of apparel have been especially strong, up 25 percent at Southern California department stores. But furniture, appliances and other durable goods also are selling well and have not been adversely affected by higher interest rates. Auto dealerships have been experiencing much larger sales gains than department stores, even in rural areas, and sales would be even higher were it not for shortages of some larger-size vehicles. Auto financing charges to consumers have risen only slightly due to competition created by captive automobile financing companies. Except for autos, retail inventories are reported to be somewhat heavy. Manufacturing and Mining Manufacturing employment continues to expand among a wide spectrum of industries but at a slower rate overall than during the fourth quarter. The most rapid gains continue to occur in the electronic equipment and missiles and apace vehicles industries located in California, Oregon, Arizona and Utah. Electronic firms have been benefiting not only from rising defense and consumer demand but business capital spending to enhance efficiency. Other capital goods industries adding to their payrolls include nonelectrical machinery, trucks and aircraft. In Washington, the nation's leading manufacturer of commercial transport planes has been adding workers since October but recently reduced its sales forecast for the 1985- 87 period. The Pacific Northwest lumber industry has been experiencing a decline in orders and prices recently due to the slowdown in national homebuilding. Two other Pacific Northwest industries, aluminum and paper, are reported to be operating at near full capacity, as is the California semiconductor industry. Apart from these industries, the manufacturing sector throughout the West generally still has ample unused production potential. After a period of stability in payrolls, the copper and coal industries have been laying off workers. Construction and Real Estate Homebuilding activity in the West has slowed since January in response to the rise in mortgage interest rates. But as of March, Western starts still remained 22 percent higher than a year earlier compared with only a 3 percent year-to-year gain nationally. Housing sales remained strong through March, but are reported to have dropped 10-20 percent in April. This slowdown in sales, combined with the large number of new homes recently completed, has resulted in an increase in the inventory of unsold homes which suggests that Western housing starts could fall in the next few months. Respondents point to several factors which indicate that any such decline could be moderate however. These factors include the rapid increase expected in personal income in the West, the increased public acceptance of adjustable rate mortgage packages, which offer initial rates as much as 3 percentage points below conventional fixed rate mortgages, and the increased offerings of "buy-down" programs by builders. While respondents report a sharp increase in nonresidential construction activity, they express concern that the supply of new office and commercial space is already beginning to outstrip demand. Firms continue to be cautious about investing in new industrial structures, except for electronic equipment manufacturers, especially semiconductor firms. Agriculture Agricultural conditions and prospects vary among the District states. In California, crop conditions generally are considerably more favorable than a year ago. Prices for most fruit and vegetable crops produced in the state are up sharply from those of a year ago, partly as a result of the winter freeze in Florida and Texas. Planting and growing conditions are far better due to improved weather. For example, planting of cotton is in full swing under excellent weather conditions. Tree crops are budding early, suggesting that yields of tree fruits and grapes will be moderate and prices higher. In the Pacific Northwest, farmers are experiencing another difficult year however. In Idaho, over 50 percent of last year's wheat crop is in storage. Prices for the Fall wheat crop are expected to be only slightly above the break-even point for most farmers in Washington and Idaho. Farm property values are declining in the Pacific Northwest and a few scattered areas of California. Bankers estimate that around 5-7 percent of California's farmers are in extreme financial difficulty but that the percentage is considerably higher elsewhere in the District. Financial Institutions Rising interest rates over the last two months have been reflected in loan rates, but have not yet had a significant impact on loan demand in the Twelfth District. Commercial loan rates have shown the largest increase because they float in accordance with market rates. Consumer loan rates at the major banks in the region generally have risen by a smaller amount, 25 to 100 basis points on most fixed- rate loan products. Qualification standards, and other loan pricing terms at most institutions, generally have remained unchanged. The increase in rates has had mixed effects on loan demand among institutions. In some cases, the strengthening economy has overcome rising rates; other institutions report weaker loan demand. For the District as a whole, large banks continue to report rapid growth in commercial and consumer loans, and moderate growth in mortgage lending. Banks anticipate continued strength in demand for commercial loans, especially as borrowers accelerate their takedowns of the large loan commitments used to finance merger activity. However, institutions are concerned that further interest rate pressure could begin to have a significant dampening impact on real estate loan demand.