Summary The business improvement in the Seventh District continues, but the uptrend in retail sales slowed in the early spring and housing activity ebbed, allowing for seasonal trends. Employment has increased further, but gains are still concentrated in manufacturing. Despite sharply higher profits, cost reduction programs are still being pressed vigorously. Output of motor vehicles, paper products, gypsum board, and household appliances is high, often at or near full capacity. Nonresidential construction is showing new life, both private and public. Demand for most mechanical capital equipment has improved, but only moderately. Two major public utilities have serious financial problems, with no resolution in sight. Although leadtimes on deliveries of goods have stretched out further and price increases are more frequent, most items continue to be readily available. Inventory building is underway on a broad front, but appears to be voluntary and in line with plans. Despite evidence of slower growth, most District executives anticipate further gains in a highly competitive environment. Pressures to restrict imports are building, supported by business and labor groups. Farmland values declined again in the first quarter. Cost-Cutting Various companies whose sales and profits have increased sharply since the low point of the recession continue to press cost-cutting programs, eliminating marginal and replacing better-paid employees, consolidating functions, selling or closing less profitable operations, etc. In past expansions such efforts often were relaxed. New hirings require special approval, and early retirements are encouraged. Staff reductions through attrition are difficult because, reflecting slack labor demand, quit rates are a small fraction of the postwar average, and the lowest since the 1930s. Also cutting staff are banks, insurance companies, and other financial service companies facing intense competition. The medical field, hospitals, laboratories, and medical supply firms, has been laying off workers, after expanding rapidly for many years, because of pressures for "cost containment." Business Climate Interested groups are much concerned about publicity given to recent studies indicating that Midwest states are "inhospitable" to business. Problems cited include high wages and benefits, restrictive work rules, energy costs, taxes, unemployment insurance and workers' compensation, government regulation, and lack of special incentives to locate, expand, or remain in the region. Some charge that evaluation methods of the surveys are unfair and inaccurate, but there is general recognition that unfavorable "scores" have foundation in fact. Job Markets Increases in manufacturing employment in the District since the low point in late 1982 compare favorably with increases in the nation, mainly because of callbacks in the motor industry. Nonmanufacturing employment, however, has increased less than in the nation. For both manufacturing and non- manufacturing the District experience compares unfavorably with the nation relative to the 1981 peak or to earlier years. Nevertheless, many factories are working long hours, seven-day weeks, heavy daily overtime, and extra shifts. Major food chains in the District have cut compensation of union workers substantially despite existing contracts. Executives say these moves were necessitated by growing competition from food discounters. Cuts in labor costs have been reflected in lower food prices. Retail Sales Merchants were somewhat disappointed by April sales, at least of soft goods. However, it is not believed that the underlying strength of the upturn has deteriorated. Sales of appliances, led by microwaves, have been "phenomenal". Other hard goods also have done well. Inventories, overall, are now slightly higher than had been budgeted, especially when goods on order are included, but not a cause of concern. General merchandise prices, up 2 percent in 1983, are expected to rise 3 percent this year. Capital Equipment Orders for capital equipment are rising, but with wide variations by category. Farm equipment remains very weak. Light construction equipment has improved, but not heavy types. Freight car orders are somewhat higher, but only specialized types, including piggy-back flatcars, auto carriers, and some bulk carriers. Machine tool orders have exceeded shipments this year, but the industry remains in "dire straits" because of sharply reduced cash flow. The paper industry is starting a new wave of expansion. There is no activity in new chemical plants, oil refineries, electric utilities, ore processing, cement, and gypsum board. A leading steel producer may build a large, modern cold-rolled sheet mill. Output of heavy trucks and trailers is at full capacity, and this is expected to continue into the second half. Traffic handled has increased sharply, and the trucking fleet aged and deteriorated in the past several years of low investment. Housing For the first quarter, housing permits were one-third above 1983, and four times the pitiful level of 1982, but less than half that of early 1977 or 1978. Sales of new and used homes slowed in the pest month, except in particularly "hot" markets. The housing slowdown is attributed to a reduction in the overhang of deferred purchases, and concern over the soundness of ARMs that involve artificially low starting rates. Nonresidential Construction The uptrend in office building construction has gathered strength, but mainly in the Chicago area. Additional large buildings are getting underway. (Factory work is up, from almost zero, but still very low.) Leasing activity is up substantially and rents have firmed, belying "expert" forecasts early last year that the overhang of space would take several years to absorb. Highway construction projects are moving forward at a very rapid pace, after lagging earlier in the year. Steel Shipments of steel are expected to continue to rise through the year with a less than seasonal decline in the summer. Demand is strong for lighter steels to be used in vehicles, appliances, and housing, with output at virtual capacity. Inventories are building, on a voluntary basis, but remain low by past standards. Structurals are improving, but demand for heavy plates used in capital goods. remains weak. Agriculture Our survey of agricultural bankers indicates that farmland values in the District declined nearly 3 percent in the first quarter, ranging from virtually no change in Indiana and Michigan to an unusually large decline of 6 percent in Iowa. Overall, farmland values were 5 percent below the year-ago level and 18 percent below the 1981 peak. Weakness in farmland values partly reflects asset adjustments by a small number of farmers. The major cause of forced sales has been debt-financed investments in the boom of the late 1970s, at high prices and high interest rates.