Overview Only slight improvement is evident in Tenth District economic activity. Retail sales, including auto sales, continue to improve modestly. Retail prices have been relatively stable and are expected to remain so, but manufacturers' purchasing agents report moderate increases in input prices and expect further increases. Retail inventories are satisfactory, but manufacturers are trimming their inventories. Housing starts remain at the level of recent months. The energy sector shows little significant recovery in spite of firmer oil prices. Savings institutions report recent strength in loan demand due mainly to mortgage refinancing and home equity loans. Deposits at banks are generally constant or up slightly, while loan demand varies across banks. The agricultural credit picture appears somewhat brighter. Retail Sales Tenth District retailers report that sales are generally above year-ago levels. Retail sales also have improved slightly during the last three months. Prices have changed little during the last three months and are expected to remain relatively stable. Inventory levels are satisfactory, but continue to be monitored closely. Most retailers are optimistic that sales will be solid during the rest of 1987. Automobile Sales Automobile dealers report that sales were slightly stronger in March. Inventories are generally high, however, and most dealers are attempting to cut their stocks. Adequate financing was available for both dealer inventories and customer sales. Nevertheless, most dealers expect sales to decline from recent levels. Purchasing Agents Purchasing agents report moderate increases in input prices during the last three months, and expect small price increases during the next three months. Most materials are readily available, but some purchasing agents report longer lead times for such inputs as lead and steel. Firms are trimming their inventories slightly and plan to continue trimming in the near future. Housing Activity and Finance Area homebuilders report that good weather has allowed housing starts to remain at or slightly above last year's levels. Housing starts are also about the same as last month. Single-family home construction has been stronger than multifamily construction, with the greatest strength in more expensive custom homes. Sales have generally been in line with expectations, and new home inventories are not causing undue concern. Home prices are stable to slightly higher. Builders have had no unusual problems obtaining delivery of construction materials, and materials prices have been relatively stable. Many savings institutions in the Tenth District have experienced weak deposit growth during the last year. In many cases, institutions have not competed aggressively for interest-sensitive deposits because of limited lending opportunities. The recent uncertainty surrounding recapitalization of the FSLIC has also dampened deposit inflows. Loan demand has been stronger recently because of mortgage refinancing and home equity loans. Mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates are finally improving somewhat in the Tenth District. Most respondents believe the recent surge in mortgage rates is temporary and that rates will return to their former levels. Energy Significant recovery in the district's energy industry remains elusive, despite firmer recent oil prices. Exploration and development activity remains generally depressed. The average weekly number of operating drilling rigs in the Tenth District increased from 223 in February to 249 in March, two-thirds of the number recorded a year earlier and only 16 percent of the peak number reached in 1982. Agriculture Winter wheat conditions vary widely across the district. Many areas are expecting an average harvest, but a wet fall significantly reduced plantings in some regions and recent spring storms have caused crop damage in a few areas. The wet weather has also brought spring field work to a temporary halt across much of the district. Severe weather also had an adverse effect on livestock in some parts of the district. Some farmers and ranchers experienced significant death loss in their spring calf crop due to the cold and snow. Bankers do not expect the losses to affect the overall livestock outlook for the district. The agricultural credit picture in the district is somewhat brighter this spring than in past years. With 90 to 100 percent of loan arrangements completed, it appears that less than 5 percent of borrowers will be denied credit this spring, a marked improvement over the last several years. Banking Total loan demand was mixed, and total deposit activity was generally constant or up at Tenth District banks during the past month. The number of bankers reporting an increase in loan demand was equal to the number reporting a decrease in loan demand. The prime rate either remained constant or increased slightly at all reporting banks, and is expected to remain constant or increase slightly in the near term. Consumer loan rates generally remained constant, and few bankers expect changes in the near term. All categories of deposits except large CD's generally remained constant or increased. Large CD's were mixed with the number of bankers reporting en increase equal to the number reporting a decrease.