Summary Reports on activity in the Seventh District generally indicate further expansion. An exception is the auto industry, where lagging car sales have led to production cuts and layoffs. Truck sales are ahead of last year. Purchasing mangers report further expansion. Steel markets have been stronger than expected. Most lines of capital goods remain slow. Nonresidential construction has been at good levels in the District, but some slowing in commercial work is reported in the Chicago suburbs. Residential building and sales continue strong. Paperboard shipments from Midwest mills have been above expectations, probably due partly to inventory building. Apparent slowness in March sales at a large retail chain store were attributed to the late Easter. Returns to District crop and livestock farmers have improved, and the five-year downtrend in farmland values shows signs of bottoming. Motor Vehicles Sales of domestic-model cars have continued below a year earlier, and production plans have been adjusted downward in response. Production cuts are concentrated among long-time domestic automakers, and are being accomplished in part by layoffs at some District plants. Temporary and permanent layoffs by automakers are particularly a concern in southeast Michigan where the industry is heavily concentrated. Assemblies are sharply higher at U.S. plants of foreign producers located outside the District. Truck sales have been strong, and forecasts for total truck sales this year have been revised up. Industry analysts expect production of heavy trucks in 1987 to exceed 1986 by 5-10 percent. Purchasing Managers Chicago and Milwaukee purchasing managers report rising activity this year through March. Production orders, backlogs, and inventories have risen. Lead times have lengthened. Expanding activity has been accompanied by continuation of the price increases which began last fall. Steel Demand for steel in the second quarter has been stronger than analysts anticipated early in the year. USX's gradual return from a six-month work stoppage was expected to put downward pressure on steel prices. This is not occurring. Rebuilding of inventories and reduced imports are thought to be important factors in the strength of steel demand. District producers of sheet steel are operating at around capacity. Bookings for the third quarter are not showing the usual seasonal downturn. Auto industry demand is holding up well despite softness in sales. Buying by appliance makers has increased. Steel service center business is strong. Demand for steel used in gas pipelines is strong. Orders are also up for steel used in oil and gas drilling and railcars, lines in which demand had been very low. Capital Goods A producer of a variety of industrial products reported that activity is flat to down. Demand for castings remained slow. Markets for food service and commercial refrigeration equipment were held down in part by the ample availability of used equipment. A District producer of railroad locomotives, which had planned recalls of laid-off workers if orders picked up, changed the status of 1,200 on layoff from temporary to indefinite. A large farm equipment maker is paring its salaried work force by a further 5-6 percent, following huge cuts earlier, in an effort to return to profitability even if demand stays depressed. Aircraft components, both civilian and military, are in strong demand. Nonresidential Construction The pace of nonresidential construction in the District has been ahead of the U.S. in 1987. Contracts (floor area) in the five states were 6 percent above last year for two months, versus a 12 percent decline nationwide. Construction steel fabricators reportedly are busy in several Midwestern states. A large amount of work is underway in downtown Chicago, with more announcements expected, but some softening is reported in the suburbs. Ready-mix concrete prices have fallen, attributed partly to the mild winter which allowed projects to be finished months ahead of schedule. Residential Construction and Sales Home construction and sales remain strong in the District. However, the jump in mortgage interest rates in April may dampen activity. Chicago-area quotes on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages vary widely, from around 9.5 percent up to 10.75 percent. A month ago, 8.75 percent was common. A large Chicago-area realtor reports that the number of its residential sales transactions in March was the second highest ever, below record 1986. Paperboard Paperboard shipments in 1987 have exceeded expectations. For 2 months, shipments from mills in the North Central states were 3 percent above a year earlier. Based on a District company's experience, March data for the industry are expected to show another increase. Strength is attributed in part to increased inventories of finished appliances and nondurables in boxes. Brown paper mills are operating near capacity. Producers have announced price increases averaging 9 percent. Retailing A contact with a large District chain store reports that March sales were weak, except when special incentives were offered, but April is expected to be well above a year earlier because of this year's late Easter shopping season. Some orders have been shifted from Japanese to other Asian suppliers in response to the high value of the yen, but this shift is "glacial" because of long-term contracts. Agriculture Conditions are improving in the District's deeply distressed farm sector. Corn and soybean prices have edged higher because of unexpected strength in exports and domestic consumption, and indications that farmers intend to cut 1987 crop acreage more than had been expected. A survey of planting intentions indicates that District farmers plan cuts of 13 percent in corn acreage and 4.5 percent for soybeans. Livestock producers continue to fare well, aided recently by seasonal increases in hog and cattle prices. In marked contrast to the downtrend of the past five years, District farmland values, on average, held steady in the first quarter. Modest first-quarter gains ranging from a half to one percent in Illinois, Iowa, and Michigan were about offset by declines of 1 percent in Indiana and Wisconsin. Farm real estate activity is up from a year ago in all District states.