Summary Production and retail activity increased in the past month, and producers and retailers continue to be optimistic about the economic outlook. In financial institutions, credit card rates are falling and mortgage activity is stronger although mortgage rates are up sharply. District farmers are behind in spring planting because of heavy rains. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity increased during the past month according to our April regional survey. About 40 percent of manufacturers reported increases in shipments and new orders over last month, as compared with about 20 percent who reported declines. These results are about the same as those from our previous survey, suggesting stable growth. Manufacturers also reported increases in backlogs of orders, number of employees, and hours worked per week. Inventories of materials are generally unchanged while inventories of finished goods are slightly lower. About half of the manufacturers plan to hold inventories at current levels over the next six months; the other half are about evenly split between those planning increases and those planning decreases. Machinery manufacturers reported an increase in activity, the first such report this year. Their capacity utilization rate has risen 5 percentage points since our previous survey, and now stands at 61 percent. Activity in the region's textile industry apparently declined from a month ago, breaking a series of increases. Activity increased again in the apparel industry. The percentage of manufacturers reporting price increases continues its trend upward. Forty-four percent of the firms surveyed reported increases in the prices they pay for materials, and 18 percent reported increases in the prices they charge for finished goods. Figures from the previous survey were 35 and 15 percent, respectively. Looking ahead six months, manufacturers expect business conditions to continue to improve, although they have tempered their optimism somewhat since our previous survey. District coal production so far this year is about 10 percent below what it was last year, and steam coal producers are concerned about a large potential increase in imported coal. Consumer Spending District retail sales rose from March to April. About 60 percent of the retailers reported increases in sales and about 20 percent reported decreases, percentages almost identical to those from the previous survey. Among subgroups of retailers, 80 percent of the department stores reported increases in sales, while most automobile dealers reported declines. In general, retailers are optimistic that business conditions will improve over the next six months. Retailers continue to accumulate inventory, as evidenced by the 42 percent reporting increases in stocks compared with only 8 percent reporting decreases. Services District service activity increased in April. Sixty-three percent of the service firms surveyed reported increases in sales over last month while 7 percent reported declines. Similarly, 68 percent expect their sales to increase in the next six months while 15 percent expect declines. Financial Several District banks have reduced rates on credit cards. Home equity loan demand continues to be strong, and financial executives report that activity in fixed-rate home mortgages has also increased since mortgage rates jumped in mid-April. In late April, mortgage interest rates averaged 100 basis points and one discount point above month earlier levels. Bankers and others close to the residential real estate market believe that mortgage loan activity will remain strong for the near future as households rush to close these loans in expectation of even higher rates to come. Homebuilders are concerned about mortgage rate increases, but so far the District housing market remains strong. Agriculture Rain has been heavier than usual for this time of year across the District, which has delayed land preparation and planting. District farmers expect to plant less acreage in major field crops this year. Corn acreage will decline by almost 7 percent from a year ago, and soybean acreage will fall 10 percent. Wheat acreage is expected to be unchanged. Surveys of peanut and tobacco farmers indicate that they plan to increase the acreage planted in these crops, but the high variability of yields in peanuts and tobacco limits the usefulness of planting intentions as a basis for forecasting production. In fruit orchards throughout the District, high bloom and bud counts give promise of good yields this year.