Although there are a few signs that the Ninth District's business activity improved in April and early May, the sluggishness noted in our last report has generally persisted. The signs of improvement came in consumer spending and agricultural conditions. General merchandise sales increased modestly, and auto sales surpassed their low prerebate levels. Also, farm prices rose and part of the district received some much-needed rain. The other components of the district's economy, however, continued to be sluggish. Manufacturing activity remained sluggish as gains in some industries' orders were offset by declines in others, and iron ore, lumber, and home sales continued in the doldrums. In addition, construction activity has recently been disrupted by strikes. These weaknesses were reflected in sluggish bank lending. Consumer Spending Consumers became less hesitant to spend. General merchandise sales increased somewhat more than seasonally in April, after being very sluggish in March, and recent sales were better than expected, according to three major district retailers. One large retailer with stores throughout the Upper Midwest, for example, reports that 37 out of his firm's 40 stores had sales increases in April. Directors from southern Minnesota and Montana also report that retail sales recently have strengthened. Accompanying the pickup in general merchandise sales has been a modest revival in auto sales. District car sales did decline in early April after being boosted by the rebates in March. But a regional sales manager for a domestic auto manufacturer states that sales in late April and early May exceeded their low prerebate levels and that in the Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area April sales were large enough to give most dealers a profit. While general merchandise and auto sales, although still quite weak, showed signs of improvement, home sales have not picked up. Mortgage loan applications at Minneapolis-St. Paul S&Ls in April were unchanged from March's depressed level. Agricultural Conditions Agricultural prices and the weather both improved modestly in April and early May. Cash grain and livestock prices at the Minneapolis and South St. Paul markets were all up 1 to 6 percent between March and April, but most prices were still well below the highs attained late last year. According to an economist with a large international grain trading firm, part of the increase in grain prices came from the markets anticipating that the administration would lift the embargo in late April. The weather has also improved. A month ago, the entire district needed rain, and drought or near-drought conditions still persist in western Minnesota and North and South Dakota. But in April sufficient rains came to eastern Minnesota and western Montana. Industrial Activity and Inventories In contrast to the slight improvement in consumer spending and agricultural conditions, industrial activity in April and early May was essentially unchanged from March's sluggish level. Gains in some manufacturing sectors were offset by declines in others. An economist with a national manufacturer of medical and office products indicates that his firm's orders picked up in April and that his firm's inventories are now lean. Similar comments also are voiced by an economist with a large national manufacturer of consumer products. On the other hand, an economist for a national manufacturer of building supplies indicates that his firm's orders declined in April, and a director associated with the paper industry reports a recent softening in his firm's new orders. In addition, in April and early May, taconite plants and lumber mills continued to operate well below their capacity. Not only have manufacturing and mining failed to pick up, but construction activity has been disrupted by strikes. On May 1, 2,800 Minneapolis-St. Paul bricklayers, roofers, and sheet metal workers went on strike. With pickets out at most major construction sites, these strikes have disrupted much of the construction activity in the Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area. Financial Development Despite the improvement in consumer spending and agricultural conditions, the continuing weaknesses in the economy resulted in sluggish bank lending. In April and early May, directors report little change in bank lending from March's low level. They indicate that banks have increased their federal funds sales, because their customers have been reducing their loan requests. These reductions are attributed both to the sluggishness in the regional economy and to high interest rates.