Overview The latest survey of Fifth District business conditions provides some evidence that activity has rebounded somewhat over the past month. Both manufacturers and retailers report stronger conditions as compared with a month earlier. In the manufacturing sector the volume of new orders jumped sharply, shipments rose slightly, and order backlogs were unchanged. Retailers report fairly widespread gains in total sales and further relative gains in sales of big ticket items. Retail inventories and manufacturers' stocks of finished goods were up generally, while materials on hand held steady. Price increases, while still widespread, appear to have moderated over the month. In general, the tone of expectations is positive. Few survey respondents expect activity to decline in coming months. Consumer Spending Survey respondents from the retail sector report a decided pick up in sales over the past month. Sales of big ticket items appear to have contributed significantly. Auto sales, in general, have improved in recent weeks, but from severely depressed levels, and continue abnormally soft. Richmond directors, however, are not at all optimistic about the near term future of consumer spending. Citing such reasons as consumers being generally spent out and over- extended, they expect and in some cases already perceive a slowdown in spending. Retailers, on the other hand are generally optimistic. Most expect activity, nationally, locally, and in their respective firms to improve in coming months. Among retailers surveyed inventories rose over the past month while employment was unchanged. Inventories are basically in line with desired levels and there is no sentiment for increasing the number or size of outlets. The Manufacturing Sector Over one-third of our manufacturing respondents experienced increased order volume in the past month. Shipments were also up, on balance, and order backlogs were steady. Finished goods on hand increased but there was no change in stocks of materials. Overall, inventories remain about right to somewhat higher than desired. There is a growing feeling that current plant and equipment capacity is greater than required under the circumstances. Current expansion plans are characterized as about right. The recent pickup in activity appears to be fairly evenly distributed among industries. Performance at textile manufacturers was perhaps somewhat stronger than average, while the furniture industry continues weak. The pattern does seem to vary geographically according to responses of our directors. In some areas industrial activity appears surprisingly strong, particularly those areas where textile production predominates. Neither employment nor the length of the average workweek showed any significant change over the latest survey period. Nearly half of the manufacturers responding expect activity to improve over the next two quarters. Very few anticipate any worsening of activity nationally, locally or at their individual establishments. Housing and Construction Conditions in the housing sector, and in construction generally, remain mixed. Reports from several areas suggest some recent improvement in sales of houses and in residential construction. One Branch director finds real estate volume to have increased dramatically in the last few weeks. Other areas continue to experience a dearth of activity in both sectors. Commercial and industrial construction appears quite strong, but much of this strength is attributable to a small number of sizable projects in various stages of completion. The impression remains, however, that, on balance, the construction industry in the District is doing moderately well. The Financial Sector In general, loan activity appears to be firming moderately although, as in the real sector, activity is spotty and individual reports are not all consistent. Commercial and industrial loans are reported to be expanding at a very moderate, but steady pace. Consumer loan demand is spotty, but most indications are that installment loans are also expanding generally. Auto loans appear to be up in most, but by no means all, areas. Much the same is true of the real estate sector. On balance, residential real estate lending is up, but there remain pockets of virtually no activity. There is some acknowledgment that private financing is displacing traditional mortgage lending so that the level of the latter understates sales activity in the real estate sector. Specific Areas of Interest The effects of the coal strike, significant because of the size of the industry in the District, have so far been confined to the coal industry itself. At some point it is expected that those effects will spread. The duration of the strike is a major question at this time. Agricultural areas are still in dire need of rain. Rains of the past few days have helped, but much more is needed to restore necessary soil moisture levels.