Summary Respondents in the Fourth District have generally revised their forecasts of real GNP upward for 1981 in response to first quarter strength, but still expect slow growth over the remainder of the year. Inflation may continue to moderate over the year, but the underlying rate is unlikely to change much. Capital goods producers still report a mixture of strengths and weaknesses. The steel industry continues to operate at a high level, but recent softening in orders suggests a typical summer slump ahead. Consumer spending in the first quarter was buoyed by auto rebates, and some economists expect a decline in the second quarter. The housing industry remains at a standstill, despite scattered reports of increased lending activity. Bankers expect continued strength in loans, accompanied by still higher interest rates. Outlook Several participants from the Fourth District Roundtable, held last March, have raised their fourth quarter 1980 to fourth quarter 1981 forecast of real GNP from about a 2 percent gain to about 3 percent as a result of a stronger-than- expected first quarter. A participant, who had expected a negative second quarter, now doubts that real GNP will show much change at all. A bank economist is now more optimistic than early last spring, because he believes that relatively rapid growth in the first quarter reflected earlier momentum in the economy and that auto and housing are still in serious trouble. Rising interest rates should not be a deterrent to economic activity, according to a bank economist, unless record interest rates are reached. Overall manufacturing activity, as measured by the Fourth District's Survey of Manufacturing, is expected to continue to expand into the second quarter, based on strength in new orders, shipments and employment. However, a loss of momentum is also suggested by the reduction in the number of firms expecting increases in each of these indexes, except shipments, during April. Prices Moderation in the first quarter GNP implicit price deflator has not altered inflation expectations. Decelerating prices, anticipated by several Roundtable economists, have been enhanced by rebate programs in the auto industry and declining demand for gasoline. While most items except energy increased at a reduced rate in the first quarter of 1981, the underlying inflation rate remains about 9 percent to 10 percent, according to an auto economist. A producer of consumer nondurables expects meat prices to increase during the summer, following the stepped-up slaughtering of cattle in recent weeks. Food prices in general may be helped by expected good weather, but rising costs could lead to upward pressures on prices by year-end. A trade economist expects inflation to move below double-digit rates by the end of the year, but he also expects slower progress over the longer term because of the insensitivity of wage costs. Capital Goods Production of producer durable goods continues to strengthen, but rising interest rates and a softening economy are likely to curtail capital spending this year. A producer of metal- cutting machines reports that orders are strong, but a producer of consumer-related electronic equipment reports that orders are softening. A manufacturer of automatic controls reports strong sales and has expanded his production facilities. However, area construction activity so far this year is at best 10 percent below depressed levels last year, according to a materials supplier, partly as a result of state and local government cutbacks in building and road maintenance. Heavy-duty truck sales have been set back by rising interest rates, and the market now needs a strong economic recovery over the rest of the year to exceed 1980 levels, according to a major parts supplier. Steel Second quarter steel shipments should be stronger than the first, but several steel economists report a definite slowing in new orders in recent weeks. The industry's relative strength continues to be associated with inventory building, with little gain in steel consumption, according to an industry economist. Also, a shift from imports to domestic steel has resulted from higher second quarter trigger prices. Therefore, steel production is currently moving toward full capacity, according to one industry economist. However, the third quarter should experience the usual summer slump in orders and shipments, because of a slow-growth economy which stalls steel usage, a sharp drop in auto sales, and a reversal of the favorable import trend as the value of the dollar continues to rise. Consumer Spending Consumer spending, aided by auto rebates, was greater-than-expected in the first quarter, according to an economist for a national department store chain. Real spending should decline in the second quarter, but with a tax cut, spending should recover by the end of the year. Autos Total auto sales dropped to an 8.1 million rate in April, according to an industry economist. Area sales in April and early May have lagged national sales. A local auto dealer reports that auto sales are off over 50 percent from a poor level a year-ago, and 75 percent from 1979 levels. Area sales should benefit from the introduction of "J" cars, but an area dealer questions whether production will be high enough to make a significant difference in overall sales. An import dealer reports a 5 percent increase in area sales from year- ago levels. Waiting lists for imported cars may reappear because of the new import quotas, but one import dealer is skeptical that consumers will switch to domestic cars. The import dealer doubts that the 7 percent reduction in the volume of car imports is enough to benefit the ailing domestic industry. Housing Area loan commitments for single-family housing in March showed less than nominal seasonal gains, according to area S&L officials. Recent increases in mortgage rates, now averaging about 16 percent for an 80 percent loan, and a substantial outflow of funds from S&Ls have slowed activity further in recent weeks. However, one S&L official reports success in lending to area builders with borrowed funds. Also, second mortgages are now being offered to existing customers at a variable rate, starting 25 basis points below the market rate of 18 percent. However, another S&L spokesman states that available funds are being arbitraged into higher yield short-term assets. Hopes for a turnaround soon are fading in the housing industry, according to an economist with a regional FHLB, because mortgage rates are not expected to fall below 13 percent by year-end. Banking Loan demand should remain firm at least through the second quarter because of substitution of bank loans for new bond issues and because some narrowing of the yield spread between commercial paper and the prime rate has made bank credit more competitive. First quarter weakness in loans may have been partly associated with overborrowing late in 1980, when fears of a credit crunch developed, according to a bank official. With those inventories depleted, businesses are now back in the market. A bank economist expects interest rates to rise further in the weeks ahead, before falling back by late spring or early summer.