Overview Economic activity remained mixed in April, according to the District reports. Sales at retail stores were up sharply in many areas. Manufacturing activity, however, was uneven although there were more positive signs this month than last. Loan demand generally was weak despite scattered strength in some sectors and in some geographic areas. While residential construction continued to be severely depressed, in a few Districts several large commercial and industrial projects were underway. Recent rains relieved drought conditions in many areas of the country, but Richmond, Atlanta, and Minneapolis still reported insufficient soil moisture. Economists boosted their forecasts for real GNP growth to the 2-3 percent range, but high interest rates were still anticipated. There is little evidence that expectations for inflation have been altered. Consumer Spending Retail sales picked up sharply in April in many areas of the country although Boston, St. Louis and Atlanta were exceptions to this pattern. In several Districts this degree of selling strength was unexpected; Chicago reported its best increase in years. Although "big ticket" items continued weak in Philadelphia and Kansas City, they contributed significantly to sales growth in Richmond. Inventories were not a problem. In contrast to the marked improvement of retail store sales, the demand for automobiles decreased in most Districts after rebate promotions ended. Nevertheless, Minneapolis and Richmond experienced modest recoveries after the post-rebate decline, and New York indicated some strength for foreign and high-priced domestic models. In Dallas some improvement in automobile sales was expected this month as the removal of state usury ceilings could make more loan money available. Manufacturing While manufacturing activity continued to vary considerably from District to District and from industry to industry, a few new signs of strength have emerged. Cleveland, Richmond and Dallas reported growth in specific sectors; shipments in New York still were strong despite decreases in new orders. Energy-related industries continued to be a source of strength, and most steel plants were operating near capacity, with the exception of those supplying automobile manufacturers. However, overall activity in most Districts was generally flat, and levels remained especially depressed in Boston and Chicago. Further, demand for manufactured products by Japan and European countries was down in some areas, in part a result of the strong dollar and the slowdown in Europe. Construction Residential construction continued sluggish as a result of high interest rates. Kansas City reported that mortgage interest rates varied between 14 3/4 and 17 percent; several other Districts reported rates in the neighborhood of 16 percent. Housing starts weakened in Dallas and Chicago. Only Atlanta reported that homebuilding rebounded in March and April and even this recovery was attributed to mistaken expectations of lower interest rates. Philadelphia and Richmond indicated some pockets of residential demand, but housing construction generally remained at low levels. In contrast to the weakness in the residential sector, Richmond, St. Louis, and Dallas reported strong nonresidential construction activity, each with large commercial and industrial projects boosting activity. Chicago's boom in downtown office construction, however, was believed to have peaked. Financial Developments Loan demand in most Districts continued to languish in April. Consumer loans were generally weak; Philadelphia reported levels 16 percent below last year. In Chicago there was no evidence that the recent easing of variable rate mortgage regulations had any significant effect on the home loan market. Loan demand remained depressed in Minneapolis with banks there reporting increases in federal funds sales. Commercial and industrial loan activity, however, was strong in Kansas City for energy-related activities and was strengthened in Dallas by attempts to borrow in advance of the raising of the state's usury ceilings. In San Francisco, financial institutions were coping with volatile interest rates by making almost all loans on a variable rate basis. Agriculture Further rainfall has ended soil moisture problems in several Districts, but Richmond, Atlanta and Minneapolis still need more rain in some areas. In Minneapolis, agricultural prices are rising, but still lie below last year's levels. Given current price levels farmers will have trouble repaying loans according to the Kansas City and Dallas reports. San Francisco projects a continuation of ample food supplies that will provide low prices for consumers. Outlook The generally strong showing in the first quarter has prompted economists to boost their estimates for real GNP growth in 1981 to the 2-3 percent range. Some weakening is anticipated in the second quarter, but growth is expected to resume by the end of the year. High interest rates have led some to fear further setbacks to housing demand, deferment of capital spending, and trimming of inventories. However, manufacturers in New York, Philadelphia, and Richmond anticipate improvement in coming months. Although there are reports of some abatement of inflation, there is little evidence that expectations have changed. The impact of the United Mine Workers strike so far has been limited to railroads. Utilities in the Atlanta area reportedly hold large stockpiles, but those near Philadelphia have only a 60-day supply of coal.