Summary Economic activity in the Seventh District remains depressed relative to the nation. Nevertheless, year-to-year comparisons in sales and orders for April and May will appear favorable because of the sharp "free fall" declines that occurred last year. Employment in all five district states is running below last year's level, with no significant near-term improvement anticipated. The recent rise in interest rates cut-off a very modest, incipient improvement in housing. More businesses and state-local governments are experiencing financial problems. Demand for capital goods is generally weak. Steel orders continue to be strong. Although sales of autos and trucks remain disappointing, general merchandise has been surprisingly good. With improved moisture conditions crop prospects are good, but farm income estimates for 1981 have been reduced because of depressed prices. Inflation Price inflation has moderated in highly competitive sectors. Retailers report a general slowing of the rise in prices. Concrete and lumber are down. Over 70 percent of Chicago area firms reported paying higher prices in April, compared to 90 percent a year ago, but none paid lower prices. All transportation costs are up sharply. Utilities insist that large boosts are needed to prevent insolvency. Overall there has been no improvement in inflationary psychology. Employment Demand for workers continues slow throughout the district. Help-wanted ads in Chicago papers are about one-third below last year. A number of permanent plant closings involving farm and construction equipment, motor vehicles, oil refining, and meat packing have been announced in the past two months. Hirings by state and local governments are curtailed by budget constraints. Many business firms are pushing wage cost reduction programs. These efforts are complicated by pressure to meet EEO quotas. Attempts to get unions to accept concessions are seldom successful. Retail sales Large national general merchandise retailers headquartered in the district reported increases in sales averaging 20 percent over last year in April. This was the best showing in years, and was surprising to merchants who had noted some improvement in March. Part of the surge is attributed to depressed sales of homes and motor vehicles, and to reduced vacation travel. Capital spending Demand for capital goods is generally disappointing. Foreign orders are up, however. Machine tool orders are off by one-third and cancellations are up sharply. Demand for heavy trucks and trailers, freight cars, mining equipment, and construction equipment is weak. Farm equipment is mixed. The oil and gas development sector is very vigorous, but the district has only a limited participation. Utilities are slowing capital expenditure programs, partly because of financial problems, and partly because of reduced estimates of demand. The auto industry is postponing major projects because of inadequate sales and reduced cash flow. State and local government Financial stringencies on state and local governments are worse than at any time since the 1930s. Officials in all five states have commented that programs are being constrained by shortages of funds caused by shortfalls in revenues and reduced federal grants. Medical care costs are up. Wisconsin, which had led other district states in economic performance, has been hurt by layoffs in capital goods, motor vehicles and recreational products. Its governor recently said the state was in a "deepening depression." The Chicago area has been warned of a possible shutdown of its vital rapid transit service. Motor vehicles Auto assemblies in the second quarter will be about 20 percent above last year, following a decline in the first quarter. Long model change-over periods at some plants to convert to Front Wheel Drive cars and will hold output at last year's level in the third quarter. Sales dropped off sharply in late March and April after the rebates were withdrawn. Sales of heavy trucks dropped back in the first quarter instead of increasing as expected. Steel Demand for steel from Chicago area mills has been strong, partly because of inventory building. A leading firm is operating at effective capacity and expects this to continue into the third quarter. Detroit mills, heavily dependent on autos, are operating at lower rates. Housing Improvement in home sales noted in March was wiped out in April and May as credit tightened. Some lenders are quoting mortgage rates as high as 171/4 percent, but with few takers. Some S&Ls are not making any new commitments, probably an unprecedented situation at this time of year. Many sales involve loan assumptions or seller subsidies. There is no evidence that recent easing of regulations in VRMs is having a significant effect. There are reports of cuts in asking prices for new and used homes, but there is no reliable quantification. Non-residential construction. Growing deficits have caused state and local bodies to cut back on bridge and highway work and other public facilities. A major boom in office buildings is in progress in Chicago's downtown area, but some analysts believe the wave is "over the top." Agriculture District farmland prices rose two percent in the first quarter according to our survey, but only half as fast as in the second half of 1980. Liquidity at district agricultural banks is ample, but loan demand is held back by high interest rates, low farm earnings, and by use of non-bank lenders. Recent rains have ended drought fears, but have slowed field work which had been ahead of schedule. The outlook for good crops is still favorable. Hope for high grain prices have been dimmed by smaller than expected exports and large harvests abroad. Both cattle and hog farmers report that selling prices remain below costs of production. Overall, these developments have caused analysts to reduce estimates of the extent of the rebound in farm income this year.