With the exception of a dip in real estate and related activities, the economic recovery continues despite higher interest rates. Consumer spending for general merchandise and autos has not declined much from the torrid pace reported in our last report. Tourism has finished the summer on a good note. Some bright spots continue to turn up in manufacturing. The outlook for district crops has improved, due to favorable changes in local weather, the federal Payment-In-Kind (PIK) program, and higher prices. However, higher corn prices have hurt livestock profits. Financial activity appears normal. The weakest spot in our economy continues to be raw material extraction and processing. Due to the rise in interest rates, though, real estate and related activities have begun to weaken somewhat as well. Consumer Spending Retail sales of general merchandise apparently have continued at a healthy rate. One large Twin Cities retailer reports an "excellent" August, posting a sales increase of mere than 20 percent. Sales of home and office furnishings were strong for that retailer. The back- to-school promotion went well for another large local retailer. The fall outlook is good for a diversified retailer, with big-ticket items buoying sales that were somewhat slowed by the hot August weather. Higher interest rates notwithstanding, retail credit sales are showing substantial strength over comparable periods a year ago. Southern Minnesota and North Dakota retailers have reported good sales to our Bank's directors, although some retailers in South Dakota and parts of Wisconsin have reported flat or lagging sales, due to local conditions. Van and recreational sales led the way in producing healthy automotive sales figures. District managers for domestic auto producers report good increases in both truck and passenger car sales over last July and August. Vehicle inventories are lean. This good news was corroborated by our Bank's directors, who reported good auto sales in southern Minnesota, in parts of Wisconsin and the Dakotas, and even in economically troubled northern Minnesota. Tourism Tourism continued to show the strength evident in our last report. One senior tourism official in Minnesota says that August was excellent. He feels that the outlook for fall is good also. The economically depressed Upper Peninsula of Michigan had a good summer, with Mackinac Bridge traffic higher than last summer. Inquiries about the "fall color season" are also up. Similar sentiments are reported in the 26-county Indianhead region of Wisconsin, which expects to finish the season with tourism up 10 to 12 percent over last year. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity is generally good throughout the district. A recently released survey of our largest manufacturers shows that twelve of them posted a second-quarter increase in earnings, while only five suffered a decline. Two district paper companies are very busy. One of them just hired 50 more workers, and the other is contemplating an expansion. Two large computer industry manufacturers recently announced lucrative new contracts. An aluminum pot line was added to a plant in Montana, the first such expansion at that plant in several years. Agriculture Recent increases in corn and soybean prices are combining with the federal PIK program and better weather to spur farm income in this district. The Minnesota farm price index rose 8 percent, reaching its highest level in two years. Corn and soybean production is looking pretty good in Minnesota, where favorable weather is expected to produce yields well above the national average. However, these crops are not doing as well in southeastern and east central South Dakota, where bad weather and woolly worms are taking their toll. Wheat production is generally good in South Dakota and Montana, and wheat prices are running from 10 to 20 cents higher than last year, Livestock profitability is being gutted by high corn prices, though, and some wheat is being substituted for corn in cattle feed. Also, a recently implemented federal dairy production assessment is hurting dairy farmers. Financial District bank lending and deposits both increased last month. Deposits and loans in Twin Cities banks grew by 3.5 percent and 5.2 percent, respectively. Comparable country bank growth figures are smaller. One bank director thinks that there may be some slack in country bank lending, due to recent interest rate increases. Raw Material Extraction and Processing These industries are still lagging behind economic recovery, primarily because of structural problems. One director reports that delivered iron ore pellets from Brazil, for example, are cheaper than pellets from district plants. Two more large taconite plants in northern Minnesota announced closings this month. At around 15 percent, the unemployment rate in the Duluth-Superior area of northeastern Minnesota is the highest among all metropolitan areas in the five state Upper Midwest. Oil drilling is still down in North Dakota and Montana. In fact, the Williston Basin now has only about 40 active rigs; it had about 60 last spring. Demand for lumber was also down somewhat. Recent price declines for wood products illustrate this weakness. One sawmill operator thinks that demand would be stronger if interest rates fell, and stimulated more construction activity. Real Estate Recent interest rate increases have begun to slow real estate activity. Single-family home sales have fallen off in the Twin Cities. The condominium market also slipped. Builders, realtors and mortgage lenders all attributed this to recent increases in interest rates. Some scattered bright spots in residential construction are noted, though, with Billings, Montana, Sioux Falls, South Dakota and Rochester, Minnesota not being much affected by higher interest rates yet. While commercial construction has also been slack, one Twin Cities contractor notes that overcapacity may still be contributing to this.