An uneven economic recovery in the Second District continued in August. Consumer spending appeared to be slowing from the extraordinary pace of early summer, though gains over 1982 were still substantial at some stores. Residential construction was strong; homebuilders are booked up for the next few months. Nonresidential construction improved further, with some industrial and commercial projects getting underway. Most manufacturers saw a pickup in activity, but heavy goods producers saw little improvement. In the agricultural sector, a summer drought damaged corn and hay crops, but harvests of fruit are expected to be high. On the financial side, business lending was flat and automobile loans picked up. Consumer Spending Retail activity continued to slacken in recent weeks. Although some department stores still achieved healthy double-digit gains over a year ago, the volume of sales in August was generally lower than in May and June. The pace appeared to be slowing further in early September. One middle-income chain experienced four straight weeks of declining sales and reported that by early September, volume was less than last year. Some merchants felt that hot weather was a key factor in depressing sales, especially those of autumn apparel. Retailers are hopeful that business will pick up when the weather cools. Construction and Real Estate Residential construction continued at a rapid pace. Builders of custom homes are fully booked through the next few months, and speculative projects, mostly condominiums, are increasing, This activity has caused shortages of supplies and labor to become more severe. Despite the current activity, builders are anxious about next spring. Traffic has fallen recently. While such a slowdown is normal around Labor Day, there is concern that higher interest rates may be discouraging buyers. If the normal pickup in October fails to materialize, construction will fall off during the first half of next year. The nonresidential real estate market continued. to improve throughout most of the District. Leasing activity increased further in downtown New York, New Jersey, and on Long Island. Although new starts of office construction remained rare, our contacts reported that some buildings are being planned, Furthermore, several industrial and commercial development projects are planned or underway in New York City's outer boroughs, with a good deal of public sector participation. And plans for major retail mall projects have been reported in Manhattan, Long Island, and the Albany area. Business Activity Manufacturing activity continued to pick up throughout the District, but the extent of the upturn was uneven. High technology companies, including producers of computers, semiconductors, defense electronics, and medical equipment, experienced the sharpest gains, and several of these firms announced expansion plans. In other industries, such as plastics and instruments, sales gains were modest. In heavy goods industries, however, no significant pickup has been reported. While steel production rose marginally in Western New York, almost half of the industry's capacity remained idle. And although capital goods producers were finding more projects on which to bid, they had still not observed any significant rise in solid orders. As for employment, a state labor official felt the job market was just beginning to turn up, with the strongest relative improvement in the services and construction sectors. By contrast, some major insurance companies reported efforts to cut costs by reducing employment levels or by moving jobs outside Manhattan. Unemployment District-wide remained below the national level, but in some areas, re-entrants to the labor force were expected to keep rates high even as employment levels rise. In New York City in particular, the rapid increase in the labor force pushed unemployment to 10.6 percent in July and August. Agriculture In the agricultural sector, bad weather has damaged some crops but has had little effect on others. The drought during July and August depressed yields per acre for corn and hay. In contrast, wheat was harvested early during the dry spell, and yields were high. The fruit-growing regions had adequate rain, and good crops are expected. The apple harvest may be one of the largest on record. High yields and low demand for New York wines have combined to depress the price of grapes, however. In the dairy industry, high production has limited price increases, and profits are expected to be squeezed as feed costs climb. Financial Developments Banks surveyed in early September reported that business lending showed little improvement. Any increase at individual institutions, moreover, was, attributed to their marketing efforts rather than any improvement in overall loan demand. Most institutions in the region have taken an unaggressive approach to mortgage lending as rates have backed up and demand for loans has dropped off In contrast, the volume of both direct auto loans and dealer paper has picked up during the summer as auto sales have surged. Further, the competitive position of banks is expected to improve as many interest rate promotions of auto finance companies end. With the deregulation of most types of consumer time deposits beginning October 1, some institutions have begun extensive promotional campaigns, in some cases offering retail, repurchase agreements at high rates until October 1 when the funds will be converted into longer term time deposits.