Overview Business activity in the Tenth District continues to grow, with sales and inventories both expanding. Prices at retail and for industrial inputs are increasing only moderately. Housing activity is beginning to slow, although savings inflows are expected to improve through yearend. Crop prices are up and livestock prices down, both in reaction to drought conditions. Bank loan demand has increased slightly, as have deposits. Retail Trade Total dollar sales volume has increased by as much as 12 percent in the first eight months of 1983 compared with the same period last year. Retail price increases have been moderate this year and are expected to remain so through the end of the year. In general, respondents are satisfied with inventory levels and are expanding stocks only to meet the pickup sales. The outlook for sales for the rest of the year is promising due to an improved economy, increased advertising, and changes in marketing strategy. Purchasing Agents The majority of purchasing agents contacted in the Tenth District report input price increases of 2 to 5 percent since September of last year, with most of the increase occurring during the past three months. Prices are generally expected to remain stable or increase slightly through the end of the year. All purchasing agents report inventories at very low levels. Most report recent inventory expansion in response to increased sales, although a few note continued trimming of stocks. Purchasing agents are nearly unanimous in having no significant problems in obtaining inputs. Housing Activity and Finance Housing starts remain at about double last year's rate, despite recent moderation in housing activity. Most of this year's improvement in housing has been concentrated in single-family starts. Inventories are low although there are some indications that they are beginning to rise again. Demand for housing has weakened significantly because of the recent increase in interest rates and uncertainty about future rates. Most savings and loan associations report an improvement in savings inflows and continued improvement is expected through yearend. Mortgage rates range from 11 3/4 percent for variable rate mortgages to 14 percent on fixed rate mortgages. Mortgage rates are expected to remain steady until near the end of 1983 and then decline slightly. Agriculture Crop conditions are mixed throughout the Tenth District. Irrigated crops are likely to produce record yields, while nonirrigated crops have been severely affected by the drought. Crop yields for corn and. soybeans of 50 to 75 percent below normal are likely in Kansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma according to District bankers. Little of the corn crop will be salvageable for silage, while soybeans are more likely to be harvested but at reduced yields. Colorado, New Mexico, and parts of Nebraska are experiencing high yields on their irrigated corn, soybean, dry edible beans, hay, and sugar beet crops. While crop prices have risen in anticipation of poor yields, livestock prices have fallen as marketings have increased due to rising feed costs and poor pasture conditions. District bankers anticipate an even larger increase in marketing of livestock later in the year. Farm equipment and supply sales activity is very slow. Sales of big-ticket items, such as tractors and combines, are being postponed until next year. Some increase in loan repayments is reported by bankers, as some farmers have been selling corn recently released from the Farmer Owned Reserve program. Tenth District farmers are showing little if any interest in the 1984 PIK (Payment-In-Kind) program for wheat. Banking Loan demand at Tenth District banks has increased slightly over the past month, mostly due to increases in commercial and industrial loans. Consumer loan and commercial real estate loan activity was quite variable with a very slight increase on average, while agricultural loans decreased slightly. Total deposits have risen at the respondent banks. The growth in demand deposits was quite variable, with a slight decrease overall. Some bankers experiencing a decrease in demand deposits feel that interest-sensitive consumers are switching, to interest-bearing deposits. Growth in money market deposit accounts and in money market and small saver certificates was also variable, but with little change on average. Conventional NOW accounts and Super-NOW accounts were up, as were IRA and Keogh accounts and large CDs. Some respondents indicate that they are deemphasizing large CD's. The prime rate ranged between 11 percent and 14.6 percent with three-quarters of the banks charging 12 percent or less. Over half the respondents report a half-percent increase in their prime rate over the last month, while a large fraction report no change. Consumer lending rates have not changed on average during the past month and most respondents do not expect any change in the near term.