Summary The economic recovery in most Seventh District centers continues to lag the national pattern, except for areas concentrating on automotive products. Even in that industry, operations are far short of the peak levels of the late 1970s. Major Midwest companies are still engaged in far-reaching cost-reduction programs to restore or improve profitability and to counter the high value of the dollar. Employment improvement, overall, is slower than in the U.S., but few new layoffs of importance are imminent. Retail sales were at favorable levels in August, aided by hot weather. Demand for capital goods produced in the region has shown only slight improvement, except for a surge in orders for truck trailers. Steel demand remains concentrated in lighter products, and has been disappointing in total. Single-family home sales and permits slowed in the summer as a result of higher interest rates, but leasing of office space has accelerated in downtown Chicago. State governments now anticipate surpluses rather than deficits because of increased taxes and tight budgets, but some local governments remain under severe strain. Corn and soybean crops have been severely damaged by hot weather and drought. Higher crop prices will boost income for many farmers. Autos Sales of cars would be even stronger if more large, rear-wheel-drive domestic models and more Japanese cars were available. Supplies of popular domestic models have been limited by capacity, which had been reduced, while the Japanese export quota has determined the level of U.S. sales of their cars. U. S. production schedules have been raised for the remainder of the year and appear firm. Measures are being taken to increase large car production capacity even though government penalties for failure to meet CAFE standards could be imposed under existing regulations. Cost Cutting Various Seventh District companies have announced ongoing programs to reduce costs substantially relative to the general price level over the next two or three years. The main reason for urgency is the substantial advantage foreign competitors have because of the high value of the dollar. Steps include drastic reductions in overhead staff; pressure on unions to accept concessions, on compensation and work rules; closing of high-cost facilities (usually in the Midwest) and consolidation in more efficient units; pressure on suppliers to cut prices; and "outsourcing" components, previously made "in house", if cheaper supplies can be obtained from others, either in the U.S. or abroad. Employment Substantial increases in employment in the District since last December have been concentrated in the automotive industry and residential construction. The bulk of the expected automotive callbacks probably already have occurred. New claims for unemployment compensation are down sharply. While few important new layoffs are in immediate prospect. announcements of closings of long-established facilities continue. Where closings involve major, older facilities, the announcement is merely the coup de grace following a long period of attrition. Other plant closings follow failures of labor and management to agree on concessions. On the other hand, some closed plants have been reopened following successful concession negotiations. Consumer Purchases Several merchandise retailers reported strong August sales, with air conditioners and other warm weather merchandise leading the uptrend. However, virtually all classes of goods have sold well, Including furniture, appliances, and carpeting, which tend to be associated with house sales. The pickup in furniture was too late to save a number of well known stores, which went out of business, casualties of high interest rates according to managers. Recreational vehicles have had a very good year. Airline travel continues to show large gains in volume with promotional fares still a factor. Capital Goods As reported in the last Commentary, the important capital goods producers of the District have not participated proportionately in the uptrend in the national aggregates. Many plants remain closed and others are operating at less than 50 percent of capacity. Imports and loss of foreign markets have reinforced sluggish domestic demand. Some say that the high value or the dollar also makes investments in production facilities abroad more attractive. In most cases where increases in orders have been reported-for example, machine tools and heavy trucks-the rise has been modest and from a very low base. One sector that is going strong is tandem trailers, permitted under the new federal law. Housing Slows Higher interest rates slowed housing activity in July and August. In the District, July home permits were down sharply from June. Conventional mortgage rates in the Chicago area had moved up to the 14 percent range in the summer, but have been reduced since late August by nearly half of the lenders surveyed by one-eighth to one- half percentage points. The state of Illinois recently provided $70 million obtained by sales of tax-exempt bonds for mortgage loans at 10.55 percent-3 to 3-1/2 percent below the market. The money was all spoken for at participating lending institutions in an hour or two, with some rancor evidenced by disappointed applicants. Commercial Building Factory construction and new utility projects are at a very low level. However, a number of large new office buildings have been announced for downtown Chicago, and more announcements are expected. (Downtown Chicago has been the only strong area in the District for office buildings.) Earlier this year. some experts predicted that the glut of office space in the Loop would last for years. Recently, however, leasing activity accelerated markedly, rents firmed, and concessions to lessees were cut back. State and Local Governments In the last legislative sessions, all five states of the District enacted tax increases to eliminate current or potential deficits. Higher taxes, tighter expenditure control, and the pickup in the general economy now are expected to produce budget surpluses in all five states in the new fiscal year. Increased rates were levied on corporate and personal incomes, retail sales, and gasoline. Rarely have the states moved in unison with such vigor to increase revenues, but the need was urgent because state deficits are illegal. Meanwhile major cities are wrestling with revenue shortfalls and demands for higher salaries for public employees, including teachers, police and fire personnel who have called strikes in some cases. Some layoffs and short weeks have been ordered. Agriculture Continuing searing drought through August caused the USDA to reduce its estimate for the corn crop of the District states by a further 20 percent. With large acreage cuts, the corn crop is now expected to be 53 percent below last year. The soybean crop, also badly damaged, is now expected to be down 28 percent. The extent of the drought damage varies widely and is most severe in Illinois and Indiana. Because of higher prices, earnings of farmers who were least affected by the drought, and those receiving PIK grain, will improve significantly.