The Twelfth District economic recovery is continuing, but at a slower pace, due largely to the decline in residential construction and its ripple effects on such key industries as lumber. Apart from a shortage-induced decline in automobile sales, consumer spending remains strong, with department stores experiencing a widening year- to-year gain in sales in August. Western homebuilding activity has been falling off moderately since June, however, and an even sharper decline in home sales suggests a further slowdown in starts in coming months. In the manufacturing sector, overall employment growth has clearly slowed. Some capital goods industries, especially electronic equipment, are experiencing increased order inflow, however. Consumer lending at Twelfth District banks has been especially strong due mainly to increased consumer spending but also due to banks' promotional efforts. Applications for mortgage loans have dropped dramatically. Consumer Spending Respondents throughout the Twelfth District report that retail sales continue to rise at department stores and other outlets and that these stores experienced a widening year-to-year margin of gain in sales in August. Major department store chains in Southern California, for example, report that sales in August ran nearly 16 percent above the year-earlier level. Double-digit increases also were recorded at major stores elsewhere. Retail outlets not only experienced strong sales of apparel and other back-to-school necessities but more costly personal luxury items and home furnishings. Respondents attribute these buoyant spending patterns mainly to pent-up demand, rising consumer incomes, and increased job security. Retailers have been increasing their inventory, but due to high real interest rates have held the buildup below the normal relationship to sales. Automobile sales declined in August, but respondents attributed the slowdown to a shortage of 1983-models rather than to a decline in demand. Manufacturing and Mining Growth in both total employment and manufacturing employment has slowed recently. In some states, notably, California and Oregon, unemployment rates actually have risen. Part of the slowdown has been due to renewed weakness in residential construction activity and its adverse effects on the important lumber industry. Since June, prices for some key homebuilding lumber products have fallen as much as 25 percent, and lumber mills have been cutting production. Fortunately, the pulp and paper segment of the forest products industry has continued to experience further improvement in orders and employment. In the metal mining and manufacturing sectors, the Pacific Northwest aluminum industry has been raising its capacity utilization rate, but the copper industry in the Intermountain states has remained depressed as prices have continued to fall despite a labor strike against the nation's second largest producer. The West's major capital goods producing industries, including those that manufacture machinery, electronic equipment, trucks and aircraft, are experiencing a pickup in orders. Not only has consumer and defense demand for these goods increased, but business demand has risen, especially for electronic equipment. In the case of commercial transport planes increased orders have not translated into increased employment, however, due to an even greater increase in shipments and consequent decline in unfilled orders. Employment has stabilized but not yet increased in such energy industries as coal mining and oil production. Construction and Real Estate Although housing starts in the West have held up relatively well compared with the national pattern in recent months, the rise in mortgage interest rates has had a dampening effect on starts since June. Moreover, sales of new and older homes have dropped touch more dramatically, suggesting that the pace of homebuilding will fall further in the months ahead. In fact, in July, the West experienced a 14 percent decline in sales of new homes, and respondents report that sales slowed further in August. One large real estate firm in Southern California reports that it is doing 40 percent less business than it was doing two months ago. Another reports that sales of new and existing homes have fallen 25 percent in the last 60 days. As a result, the inventory of unsold homes has risen sharply. The climb in mortgage rates has disqualified large numbers of buyers in the high-priced California market. Builders in Southern California report that cancellations of new tract-home sales are running at a 40-50 percent rate in August, twice the cancellation rate earlier in the year when FHA rates were in the 12 percent range. Some builders who had previously committed to a "buy-down" arrangement to keep effective interest rates affordable are now facing a large number of discount points, thus shutting off this avenue of financing in the future. Most respondents feel that housing has clearly passed its cyclical peak for this year and that the recent drop in FHA and VA rates from 13.5 to 13 percent will only slow the rate of decline. In the nonresidential construction sector, activity continues to lag behind the year-earlier pace. Vacancy rates are declining for office and other commercial buildings, but no significant increase in construction is expected until 1984. Agriculture Unseasonable rains in Southern California caused damage to certain farm products in August, including alfalfa hay, cotton, tomatoes, grapes and almonds Nevertheless, net farm income is expected to be up in most District states this year, partly because the farm sector is expected to benefit greatly from the combined effects of the Federal payment-in-kind (PIK) program and the Midwestern drought in boosting prices for cotton and grains. The positive effects of the PIK program for California and Arizona cotton growers will be reduced by their need to put part of their 1983 crop on loan with the Commodity Credit Corporation, reducing the amount available for sale at higher prices. Nevertheless, these farmers still will benefit significantly from the program, while farmers in Washington, Oregon and Idaho will benefit in general from higher grain prices. Livestock producers, on the other hand, will suffer rising feed costs and a further drop in already weak cattle prices. Financial Institutions The volume of consumer loans outstanding at large Twelfth District banks has grown at an annual rate of 12 percent over the past three months. Increased consumer spending resulting from rising real incomes, employment and confidence has been largely responsible for the increased borrowing. Households' purchasing power also has been enhanced by the effects of the stock market rally in increasing wealth. In addition, banks are actively promoting consumer lending, although this is taking place through new loan products and publicity about availability rather than by lowering rates significantly to meet competition from captive finance companies. Mortgage lending continued to increase through August on the basis of previous commitments, but it is likely to deteriorate in coming months as a result of higher rates. Bankers report a sharp drop in applications for new mortgage loans. Commercial lending activity remains very weak, partly because corporations are using increased profits to pay down short-term debt.