Summary Economic conditions remain satisfactory in most parts of the West, although western business leaders' expectations about national growth continue to be subdued. Wage and price trends have not changed appreciably during the past two months, with few sectors reporting increases beyond 5 percent. Several service sectors are experiencing strong growth, while retailers report generally satisfactory conditions. Information about manufacturing industries suggests that overall activity is flat, with strength in some sectors offset by weakness in others. Conditions in resource industries are little changed. Despite worrisome trends in aggregate real estate and construction data for the West, markets in most areas, particularly those away from the coast, exhibit robust activity. The pace of activity at financial institutions varies within the District. Business Sentiment Western business leaders' expectations continue to reflect caution about national economic growth. Two-thirds expect slow real GNP growth during the next twelve months, while 4 percent now expect a national recession. Respondents are relatively upbeat about the prospects for improvement in the trade balance, but expectations regarding consumer spending and business investment have deteriorated somewhat during the last two months. Wages and Prices War and price trends have not changed appreciably during the past two months. Current increases cluster in the 4 to 5 percent range, with few larger rises reported. However, some service-sector firms continue to face a shortage of entry-level workers, which is putting significant upward pressure on their pay scales. Some employers note that, while wages are rising by less than 5 percent, the cost of benefits rose 8 to 15 percent during the last year. An electronic equipment maker reports stable prices despite heavy pressure on profit margins. Prices of several resource products, including wheat, corn, and some forest products, have fallen in recent months. Retail Trade and Services The trade and service sectors continue to be major contributors to economic growth in the West. Strength as reported across a broad range of service sectors, with particularly robust activity in health care, business services, and software. For example, one large software company plans to add 1,000 workers during the next year. The economies of Phoenix and Tucson are benefiting from recent or planned support facilities for national communications, credit card, and airline firms. Most retailers report satisfactory conditions, although for many growth is somewhat slower than in recent years. However, one major retailer notes that sales have showed significantly during the last two weeks. Auto dealers report that new vehicle sales are soft, while used cars and trucks continue to sell well. Newspaper advertising volume is mixed. Reports from southern California indicate that help-wanted advertising is running below last year's levels, while a Seattle-area paper reports that employment advertising rose by more than 10 percent during the past year. Manufacturing Reports about manufacturing industries suggest that overall activity is flat, with strength in some sectors offset by weakness in others. Growth is reported in the Puget Sound ship-building industry, and sales of heavy equipment have risen sharply during the past year in most parts of the West. Some respondents report that delivery times for their supplies have fallen significantly, which they attribute to a combination of increased production and weak demand in other parts of the country. Several defense contractors with operations in the West have announced layoffs or plant closures in recent weeks. Order backlogs for commercial aircraft continue to grow, but the region's largest manufacturers are cutting their work forces to cut costs or enhance productivity. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Conditions in resource industries are little changed. Farm conditions are good overall, although low water supplies continue to cause concern in many parts of the region. The salmon run in Bristol Bay (Alaska) was twice as large as was expected. The long- anticipated deterioration in logging and lumber is becoming more apparent in the Northwest, as reduced home-building activity at the national level reduces demand and environmental concerns restrict supply. Construction and Real Estate Information about overall conditions in western construction and real estate markets suggests significant deterioration during the past year. However, such aggregate statistics are dominated by cooling in coastal California from the boom levels seen a year ago, and by changes in the geographical composition of real estate activity. In most other parts of the West, home sales are robust and prices are rising, in some cases significantly. Las Vegas and Sacramento are particularly vigorous at present, with parts of Oregon, eastern Washington, Idaho, and Utah close behind. Arizona markets continue to be troubled, as absorption of current inventories proceeds slowly. Some respondents from California, Washington, and Arizona complain that tighter credit is restricting construction activity in those markets. Financial Sector Activity at financial institutions varies within the District. For example, some lenders report slack loan demand, others report slower growth in loan demand, and still others report accelerating growth. Most bankers report that delinquencies are down or low. A few small businesses complain that tighter credit conditions are hurting their ability to do business. However, bankers themselves disagree about the extent of the tightening and its impact on lending activity.