Overview Contacts throughout the Southeast generally see a continuation of the slow growth they have been reporting for the past several months. Consumer spending on big ticket items, such as autos and houses, is turning out well below earlier expectations of moderate growth. Businesses also report increased efforts to conserve cash by not paying suppliers promptly. These factors are said to be causing increased pessimism over future activity compared to our earlier surveys. Reports on retail sales indicate at most modest growth as compared to the same period last year. Auto dealers continue to indicate their sales are even with or below the same period in 1989. According to bankers consumer lending remains below last year's levels, while real estate and business lending continue to grow at a moderate pace. Construction contacts indicate that the overall weakness in commercial and residential construction continues. Except in the textile and auto related industries, Southeast manufacturing is reportedly continuing to post modest growth. Farm contacts estimate that the drought in June and early July has destroyed approximately a quarter of the region's corn, soybean and forage crops. Shortages of entry level workers are increasing but no additional pressure on wages or prices are evident. Retail With a few exceptions, retail activity is reported to be growing but at a slower pace than at this time last year. Almost uniformly, contacts indicate that women's and children's apparel is selling well, while men's apparel sales have slowed noticeably in the last month. Reports on durable goods sales are mixed geographically, but most areas indicate some pickup recently in home appliances and items associated with home improvements. Consumers are reluctant to purchase houses, but a desire to fix up their current housing is most often given as the reason for the improvement in durables sales. In light of slow sales and a more pessimistic outlook among retailers, they report plans to reduce inventories. Retailers are also expressing concern over reports of credit tightening by commercial banks and are reportedly slowing down payments to suppliers in an attempt to conserve cash. Some manufacturers and business services suppliers noted problems collecting on growing receivables. Auto dealers continue to report slow sales and do not expect a pickup in the next few months. Import dealers are reporting stronger sales growth than are domestic dealers. Import sales are equal to or slightly better than last year's. Dealers report that domestic manufacturers have not come forward with new incentive plans as expected, while some import manufacturers have extended their incentive programs. Almost all dealers stated that used car sales are strong and report difficulty finding quality used cars. Manufacturing Reports from textile producers, auto, and auto related manufacturers, and furniture manufacturers continue to indicate weakness; however, most other manufacturers are reporting good year- over-year growth. Producers of heating and air conditioning equipment as well as marine equipment, continue to note increasing sales relative to last year. Paper producers saw a slowdown in domestic sales in recent weeks; nevertheless a recent pickup in export sales has allowed most to run at capacity. Pulp and wood products production has rebounded in recent weeks amid growing export demand. An aluminum producer reports healthy growth in sales year-over-year and has announced plans for a new plant to expand capacity. Sales by producers of farm equipment are also increasing over last year as a result of the improvement in the agricultural sector nationwide. Real Estate and Construction Construction contacts indicate that residential and commercial construction remain weak, and are significantly below last year's levels. They also indicate that the overhang of both residential and commercial properties is being absorbed slowly. More stringent lending standards continue to be mentioned as retarding factors for new commercial and residential projects. The only bright spot in the construction sector is in public infrastructure. Financial Services While most bank contacts indicate that business loan growth remains slow, some noted a pickup in demand for loans by petrochemical and medical businesses and nursing homes. Reports indicate real estate loans continue to grow slowly. Demand for consumer loans, especially auto loans, has slowed significantly in the last few months. A number of our banking contacts reported concern over a rise in credit card delinquencies and noted increasing consumer and small business bankruptcy filings. Agriculture District farmers report that the June and early July drought resulted in the loss of approximately 25 percent of the region's production of corn, soybean and forage crops. Losses are reportedly heaviest in Georgia and Tennessee, where two-thirds of the District's total production of these crops occurs. Poultry producers indicate a continuing high level of sales, especially for export with some reporting that export demand for poultry is up 40 percent from a year ago. District poultry producers indicate that recent sales to the Soviet Union, several Eastern European countries and Japan have brightened their outlook considerably. Wages and Prices As has been the case for the last several months, reports from around the District revealed little new wage or price pressures. Scattered reports that certain types of skilled labor are in short supply continue to be received, but these are localized. Reports of shortages of entry level workers are increasing.