Summary Sluggish economic growth is reported by most contacts throughout the District. Retail sales and employment levels are flat or expanding slowly. Manufacturers plan to eliminate several thousand jobs in the near future. Loan growth has slowed at the District's largest banks. Consumer Spending Retail sales in recent months are described by most contacts as flat to slightly higher than a year earlier. Memphis has shown moderate sales growth, however, partially because of increased sales at restaurants and apparel stores. Some retailers expect a slowing in sales because of the anticipated contraction of military bases and layoffs at auto and military aircraft plants. In most parts of the District, sales of durable goods, particularly home appliances, televisions, and other consumer electronics, are flat or below year- earlier levels. Most contacts report recent vehicle sales as flat to down slightly from a year earlier. Some contacts in Arkansas and Kentucky; however, report moderate gains in vehicle sales, particularly of vans, light trucks and small to midsize cars. Labor Markets District employment growth in recent months has ranged from small gains in Arkansas to slight declines in Kentucky, Missouri and Tennessee. Contacts expect no substantial job growth in St. Louis for the remainder of 1990 because of the planned layoffs of approximately 7,000 auto and defense industry workers. One labor analyst predicts that the layoffs will cause the areas unemployment rate to be approximately one percentage point higher by year's end than it otherwise would have been. A slowdown in the trucking industry led to layoffs of St. Louis drivers and an easing of a driver shortage in Memphis. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity has weakened recently. Employment declined in plants making nonelectrical machinery and some nondurable products, such as chemicals, textiles and apparel. One tire plant will cut production soon in response to slow car sales. Many defense contractors, including those making shoes and electronic components, are curtailing their operations due to declining government contracts. To cut costs, one large defense contractor will lay off approximately 5,000 workers before year's end. An increasing number of small manufacturers, including those making electronic components and valves, is opening plants or distribution centers in Europe to provide better service to European customers. One producer of computer-related equipment will soon export to Poland and receive shoes as partial payment. Input costs and product prices generally are expected to be 3 to 5 percent higher next year, but some contacts note slight declines in some input prices and widespread resistance to product price increases. Several contacts note that they have been unable to raise their prices for two or three years due to competitive pressures. Construction and Real Estate In response to generally flat rents and high vacancy rates, the construction of multifamily dwellings has almost stopped in many parts of the District. Single-family homebuilding is weaker than a year earlier in most areas. In Louisville, however, the construction of both single-family and multifamily dwellings has expanded and is well above year-earlier levels. The building of starter homes in Memphis is strong. There is widespread uncertainty regarding the near future, but contacts in most areas expect homebuilding to weaken slightly in the year's second half. Contacts report that residential construction contractors in St. Louis, with little available work, have lowered their bids to the point where some weaker firms may soon fail. Agriculture Most District crops are in fair to good condition. Soil moisture conditions are reported as adequate in Missouri and Tennessee, but the remaining District states report that soil moisture is short. The dry soil conditions, in conjunction with a recent heat wave, stressed the late-planted corn crop and may have lowered potential yields in some areas. District states' wheat yields were reduced by 12 percent to 26 percent from a year ago because of diseases that developed during the wet spring. Banking and Credit Loan data for the period from mid-May to mid-July point to a slowdown in credit growth. Total loans at the District's 11 largest banks increased 0.7 percent over this interval compared with a 2.3 percent expansion over the same period last year. Commercial loans, which represent about one-third of total loans at these banks, declined 0.1 percent over the two-month period compared with a 2.1 percent increase one year ago. Real estate loans increased 4.1 percent over the two-month period last year compared with a 3.3 percent rise this year; the increase in consumer loans was down from 0.9 percent to 0.2 percent this year. As of mid-July, commercial loans on these banks' books were 4 percent below their year-ago level.