Summary Consumer spending appears to have emerged from its slump earlier this year. and District retailers are cautiously optimistic about sales prospects for the fall season. Fourth District business activity is supported by a revival in manufacturing output, and respondents expect that activity in the second half will match or exceed the first half. There appears to be no abatement in price pressures this half from the first half. Housing construction in Ohio has eased somewhat less than in the nation, but housing prices continued to rise through mid-year. Ample funds are available for single-family units, but lenders are extremely cautious about loans for multifamily and commercial construction. Consumer Spending The consumer spending slump appears to have bottomed in May, according to District retailers. They report moderate sales growth in June that continued into July. Spending on household durables, particularly furniture, was reported to be soft, with the possible exception of small appliances. Apparel sales, a sluggish performer during the spring, seem to have improved so far this summer. Retail inventories remain high, but are generally reported to be falling, with most of the excess inventory expected to be gone by late August or September. The consumer spending outlook is guardedly optimistic for the fall, although major retailers report that orders for fall delivery were less than typical for the season. Consumer prices are reported to be stable, with little beyond seasonal discounting expected. Manufacturing District activity has been supported by a somewhat better-than-expected revival in manufacturing output in recent months. Strengthening in output has come from continued growth in exports, a mild comeback in auto output, and some buildup of inventories. Steel output has held up better than expected. Operating rates of some flat-rolled steel producers have been hovering at about 90 percent of capacity, and order books at one mill are reported to be full, although lead times are not as extended as last year. Orders and shipments in July are reported to be stronger than usual. Orders for construction steel, however, have been weakening. Some of the unexpected strength in overall steel output has occurred because the volume of imported steel has fallen in response to weak domestic steel prices and strong demand abroad. Auto output this quarter is expected to be sustained at last quarter's rate, barring a work stoppage in the industry because of labor contract negotiations. The cautious optimism for the third- quarter production outlook apparently is based on strong dealer demand for light trucks during much of the 1990 model year. Auto dealers in the District report a significant slowdown in new car sales in July from June. Dealers are not as optimistic about near- term sales prospects as they were in our previous survey. They note less showroom traffic, a perception that consumers are concerned about a slow-growth economy, and the price increases announced by the Big Three auto producers. A capital goods producer is slightly more sanguine about over business spending for producers' equipment this half than they were a few months ago, because manufacturing output is better than he expected. District surveys and respondents suggest cautious optimism that second-half production will be as good as or better than the first half. The latest survey of CPAs in Ohio shows that 87 percent of the 600 respondents expect that business in Ohio will equal or exceed the first half, which is slightly higher than in the previous survey. The latest survey of purchasing managers in Cleveland shows that 73 percent of the respondents expect a similar scenario. Prices There are no signs that inflation pressures are abating. The latest purchasing agents' survey in Cleveland shows that their "inflation forecast has increased slightly," and that 76 percent of respondents expect an inflation rate in a 4 percent to 5 percent range by year-end 1990. Economists in the District also expect inflation within that range at least well into 1991. Near-term prices may be jarred upward by higher crude oil and gasoline prices if OPEC cuts back production, or if state and federal governments increase taxes on gasoline. Some metal producers will attempt to raise prices this half in response to higher labor compensation costs, and some capital equipment producers and their suppliers will attempt small price increases over the next several months, following a period of virtually no change. Construction The tone of comments from District respondents suggests a continued slackening pace of construction, especially for commercial buildings. New housing starts in Ohio during the first half of 1990 were slightly below the pace of a year earlier. New home sales in Pittsburgh and Cincinnati rose during the first half, but fell slightly in Cleveland. Home prices in those cities rose between 6 percent and 8 percent in the first half. Lenders report that ample funds are available for single-family housing. Funds for multifamily construction are more difficult to obtain, according to builders.