Summary Activity in the Seventh District shows mixed trends, but remains depressed overall, especially in contrast to the nation. Reaction to the election was very favorable on the part of management. But sharply higher interest rates are causing great uneasiness. Price inflation has accelerated, partly because of rising labor costs. Retail sales have improved somewhat, but sales of autos and trucks have been disappointing. Airline traffic is sharply lower. Producer equipment output is declining. Steel demand has improved further. Housing remains bleak. The financial position of farmers has improved, and farmland values are on the uptrend again. Reaction to election Business and financial executives seem to be almost unanimous in their enthusiasm over the extent of the conservative shift registered in last week's election, unmatched since 1952. They realize that any policy changes will take time to implement, but anticipate less onerous administration by regulators and less antagonism toward the profit system, which should encourage risk taking. Prices Wholesale prices are rising at a faster pace again. Utility rates are about 20 percent above last year, but are still deemed inadequate. The CTA might raise transit fares in Chicago from 60 to 85 cents at year end, and to $1 next June. Airline fares are sharply higher. Labor costs Labor organizations, which now include many municipal workers, display an unswerving militancy in contract negotiations despite widespread layoffs, especially toward attempts of management to change work rules to improve productivity. The GM-UAW pact of September 1979 was valued at 34 percent over three years, assuming an 8 percent annual CPI rise, much less than has occurred. The GM formula set the pattern for other major industries. In several recent instances managements at various district plants have told workers covered by national labor contracts that labor costs are about 25 percent less at competing plants in the South. Some or all of the jobs at these plants are in jeopardy. Higher energy costs in the North are also an adverse factor. Retail sales were somewhat improved in October, with seasonal merchandise aided by colder-than-normal weather. Retailers are said to have ordered cautiously for the Christmas season, which will not begin in earnest until the second half of November. Some retailers insist that last year's federal bankruptcy law must be revised because of growing abuse. "Slow pay" problems on professional bills have increased demands for cash payments and improved business for bill collectors. Many established fixed-price retailers are said to be ready to "deal" with customers to meet competition. Manufacturers of riding mowers, RVs, outboard motors, and other luxury goods are holding production at a very low level. Autos and trucks Sales of autos and trucks have been somewhat disappointing thus far in the model year. Various assembly plants are being closed periodically for a week or more, including the plant where Chrysler assembles its smallest compacts, which were in short supply in mid-1979. Heavy truck demand appears to have stabilized and is expected to rebound in 1981. Indefinite layoffs in the auto industry have dropped from over 250,000 to 191,000, but little further improvement is expected. Airline travel Airline passenger miles in October were down about 11 percent from last year. Traffic was down 17 percent for the largest airline, partly because of the stimulus of half-fare coupons last year. With increases totaling 26 percent since June, standard air fares are now 40 percent above last year, an unprecedented development. Another 6 percent boost is set for later this month. Higher fares are a major factor depressing both business and pleasure travel. Capital goods Order backlogs for most producer equipment continue to decline. New orders are weak. Some analysts expect the producer goods downturn to persist past mid-1981. Some of the largest construction equipment plants are shut down temporarily. A revival in demand for construction equipment depends on housing. Orders received by a producer of capital goods components have increased for two months, reflecting needs for replacement and maintenance. Steel Bookings of a leading steel company are running at 80 percent of capacity, with sheet products leading. Shipments will continue at an improved level through year end, but will remain well below last year's peak. Substantial price increases are being posted. A hot strip mill, closed last May after demand suddenly dried up, has been reopened. Steel companies producing oil country goods are planning increases in capacity, because current facilities are running at full capacity, a unique situation for the various product groupings. Housing Residential construction and transactions are very weak throughout the district. In the first nine months single-family permits in the Chicago area were 66 percent below last year and 84 percent below 1978. Multi-family permits were off somewhat less. Sales of existing homes were down 33 percent from last year, and 41 percent from 1978. Mortgage rates have risen further to the 14-15 percent range, but few loans are being negotiated. (One large Chicago S&L stopped making loans on November 5.) Some S&Ls are offering only variable rate mortgages. Many home builders, and some mortgage bankers, have ceased operations, at least temporarily. A leading producer of building materials is raising its forecast of housing starts in 1981 to 1.45 million. This is based on (1) growing evidence that the housing stock is inadequate, and (2) an expected decline in the basic mortgage rate to the 12-13 percent range. Agriculture Rebounds in commodity prices and farm income prospects in recent months are credited with sparking a rise in farmland values in the district, up 5 percent in the third quarter, and enough to wipe out the decline of the first half. Farm loan demand remains soft despite a marked improvement in availability of loans. Deposits at rural banks have increased and loan repayments have accelerated as farmers increased cash marketings. Transportation problems are not nearly as significant as last year, because of smaller crops and an increase in the number of hopper cars. Purchases of farm implements have increased, but only moderately, and not for all types.