There is little indication of any significant changes in the level of business activity in the Fifth District over the past month. In the manufacturing sector shipments and new orders increased, on balance, but only very slightly. Backlogs of orders and inventories declined somewhat. Among retailers there were some gains as total sales and relative sales of big tickets rose slightly. There is little evidence of any broad recovery in consumer durables, however. Employment around the District held steady on balance. Prices continue to rise across a broad front. The view that business activity generally will improve over the next six months gained adherents over the last month. Consumer Spending Despite continued resistance to prevailing prices most retailers surveyed report a pickup in total sales over the month. Apparel items seem characteristic, with consumers responding enthusiastically to price cuts. There are also reports of small gains in sales of big ticket items but overall sales of durables, particularly furniture, television sets, and radios, continue to lag. There are isolated reports of increased activity in more practical appliances such as washing machines and refrigerators. Auto sales vary widely from area to area, ranging from severely depressed to moderately robust. Reports on housing sales range from "no activity" to moderate. The Manufacturing Sector Activity in the manufacturing sector, even within individual industries, has been mixed in recent weeks. On balance, shipments and the volume of new orders were up narrowly. Backlogs of orders and inventories are down from last month. Stocks of both materials and finished goods were worked down leaving manufacturers, as a group, more comfortable with current levels. Employment and the length of the average workweek apparently declined slightly during October. Current plant and equipment capacity remains somewhat above desired levels. Economic Outlook Survey respondents are becoming increasingly optimistic about the prospects for business activity over the next six months. A majority of respondents now expect the level of activity nationally and in their own firms to improve while about half expect improvement in their respective market areas. Despite this optimism about the direction of change over the next two quarters there is little support around the District for the view that the level of activity will soon reach what would be considered normal levels. Only moderate gains are expected over the next year. Agriculture The serious impact of 1980's drought on farmers' financial and credit conditions is pointed up more and more as the harvest season progresses. With farm income significantly lower, loan repayment rates in the third quarter were down sharply from both the previous quarter and a year earlier, while renewals or extensions were substantially higher. Farm loan demand continued to be considerably weaker than usual. Bank supplies of farm loan funds were up from both the summer quarter and year-ago levels, however. Interest rates on farm loans were up slightly, and collateral requirements were much stiffer. The Financial Sector Consumer borrowing has picked up in recent weeks. Year-to-year gains are now considerably higher than in most recent months. The feeling, however, is that overall borrowing has not yet reached what would be considered normal levels. Despite holding recent gains in some localities mortgage lending activity continues quiet. Many lenders have become more restrictive in their lending practices in expectation of slowing deposit growth. Recent interest rate increases have caused some lenders to fear disintermediation in favor of money market funds should rates rise much further. For the most part, however, such effects have not been felt to date. Our directors in the banking and thrift industries find personal bankruptcies in their markets rising in line with recent national patterns.