With interest rates continuing to rise, the district's recovery was sluggish in October. Although there were modest gains in merchandise and auto sales and in manufacturing production, there was no change in mining or agricultural activity and there was a sharp decline in home sales. Reflecting these lackluster economic conditions, bank lending did not increase. Consumer Spending Consumer spending was frugal. According to bank directors and large Minneapolis/St. Paul retailers, general merchandise sales increased modestly between September and October. Likewise, car sales accelerated modestly in October, according to regional sales offices of' domestic automobile manufacturers. However, home sales, which are very sensitive to interest rates, declined as the dollar value of mortgage loan applications at Minneapolis/St. Paul area S&Ls dropped 36 percent between September and October. Industrial Activity and Inventories In October, industrial activity shifted to low gear. After improving adequately for three months, manufacturing production grew more slowly in October, directors reported. This slower growth, one director believes, stems from recent interest rate increases which pushed up inventory costs and caused businesses to curb their orders. While manufacturing production slowed, mining output remained below grade. In northern Minnesota and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, iron ore shipment continued to be depressed in October, and in Montana copper mines remained shut down by a labor dispute. Agriculture The favorable agricultural conditions that existed in the district in September remained unblighted. Favorable weather continued into October, so crops properly matured and farmers had ideal conditions for harvesting corn, soybeans, and sunflowers. Like the weather, favorable prices continued into October. In Minneapolis, the average cash prices for corn and soybeans were unchanged between September and October, and wheat prices rose 8 percent. In St. Paul, average cash prices for cattle and hogs were close to their September levels. Financial Developments Because of the district's sluggish recovery, there was no advance in bank lending. Loans outstanding at Minneapolis/St. Paul area banks were essentially unchanged between September and October. Directors from outside the Minneapolis/St. Paul metropolitan area also reported no lending increases at commercial banks in their areas.