Overview Reports from Reserve Banks this month indicate, on balance, some improvement in economic activity. Manufacturing bounced back in several areas as have retail sales and to a lesser extent capital investment, but conditions in the agricultural sector are mixed as the effects of the summer drought continue to be felt. Any optimism, however, is tempered by concern over the recent run-up in interest rates. Accordingly, many respondents are looking either for a pause in the present upturn or for a very sluggish recovery. Despite the weak outlook for the economy, inflation is expected to continue at high rates. While the demand for business loans varies among Districts, the decline in home mortgage activity appears rather pervasive. Business Conditions and Outlook The extent of the recent strengthening in production and sales activity varies from District to District. An upturn in manufacturing is reported in Boston and Atlanta but in Minneapolis, after three months of improvement, production is down. Economic conditions in Cleveland, Chicago and St. Louis were spurred by an increase in steel production, but this heightened demand is viewed as temporary-mainly the result of inventory replacement. Retail spending is generally stronger with the exception of San Francisco, where sales remain below last year's level. In New York and Chicago, the market for domestic automobiles is lackluster. While the majority of industrial respondents in a Philadelphia survey look forward to a pickup in business activity during the next six months, there is widespread concern among respondents that the recent surge in interest rates will hurt the economic recovery. Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco all cite some deterioration in local housing markets which they attribute to rising mortgage rates. Prices Purchasing agents in Kansas City report some slowing in the rate of increase in input prices, but this is expected to be shortlived. Sharply higher prices for both raw materials and finished goods are also anticipated in Philadelphia and Cleveland, and wage rates continue to accelerate in Chicago. Dallas also notes a further run-up in labor costs, particularly in energy-related industries, but lumber prices there are well below the leve1s of a year ago. Financial Developments Business loan demand remains sluggish in Boston and New York. In Dallas, however, commercial and industrial lending has been buoyed by heavy demand from energy-related industries. While declining mortgage activity is linked to sharply higher mortgage rates by Atlanta and Minneapolis, continuing economic uncertainty and falling real incomes are considered more significant factors by Cleveland respondents. A falloff in loan applications is reported by Philadelphia, and some San Francisco S&Ls have completely dropped out of the mortgage market. Chicago and Atlanta note a growing trend towards renegotiable and variable rate mortgages. Mortgage demand remains high in Dallas, but few commitments are being made as loan defaults and FHA-VA foreclosures increase. Strong savings inflows are reported by Kansas City S&Ls, while at San Francisco banks, large outflows have taken place. Consumer Spending New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, Atlanta and Dallas all indicate retail sales gains spurred by heavy marketing and promotional activity. Advances are led by moderate to expensive apparel items and other soft goods, but low priced soft goods and consumer durables still lag. Only a very modest improvement in sales is noted in reports from Cleveland, St. Louis, Minneapolis and Kansas City. In San Francisco, retail sales remain at recession levels. In Boston, however, stronger sales, even in constant dollars, are reported for the first time in months. Despite the short holiday selling period due to the late Thanksgiving holiday, merchants in New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta and Dallas are looking forward to a strong Christmas season. Automobile sales are being bolstered by the introduction of 1981 models in Kansas City and San Francisco. In Cleveland, only small cars are selling well. In New York, foreign car sales are brisk, but the demand for domestic models, remains weak. With sales still sluggish, another wave of dealer closings in the New York area is anticipated. Automobile sales are described as disappointing in Chicago. Residential Construction Housing market conditions continue to deteriorate as rising mortgage rates further discourage demand. A decline in home sales is reported by Chicago, St. Louis and Minneapolis and housing starts are falling in Cleveland, Kansas City and Dallas. While new home prices are up slightly in Kansas City, prices are reported stable in Philadelphia and softening a bit for higher priced homes in Dallas. Business Fixed Investment The outlook for capital spending is mixed. Atlanta notes strong investment in many parts of its District as a result of both state and local tax incentive programs, but Boston reports a downturn in orders for heavy metalworking equipment and machinery for paper and pulp production. In New York, machine tool orders are stronger although industry spokesmen do not expect full recovery until late 1981. Construction of manufacturing facilities is up in parts of New England, particularly among defense-related industries. Military hardware production is also strong in St. Louis, as is production of oil and natural gas equipment. Chicago respondents expect the demand for heavy trucks to rebound in 1981. Agriculture The outlook for agricultural production and farm income is mixed as many Districts continue to feel repercussions from the summer drought. Richmond reports farm loan demand is weaker than normal, while repayment rates are falling sharply. Renewals and extensions are higher and collateral requirements are stricter. Dallas also notes slower loan repayments, while Kansas City respondents expect a doubling in the number of farmers not expected to meet credit standards in 1981. Many of these farmers, however, will be eligible for low-cost emergency loans from the Farmers Home Administration. The outlook for crop yields is good in Minneapolis and San Francisco, but the Atlanta Reserve Bank reports that crop production estimates for the southeast have been lowered again. Inventories Retail and manufacturing inventories are generally lean. In Boston, stocks of home furnishings are so tight that any strengthening in demand is expected to translate into an immediate increase in production. Auto inventories, in particular, are being held down because of the high carrying costs according to respondents in New York. Other retail inventories are reported in line with sales with the exceptions of Kansas City and some areas of St. Louis where demand remains weak. These stocks, however, are expected to be worked down during the Christmas selling season. Academic and Financial Consultants All of this month's academic respondents agree that the recovery will be weak by historical standards as a result of tight monetary and fiscal policies. Professor Eckstein thinks that there will be a recession in 1981 as a result of the 15 1/2 percent prime rate. Eckstein believes that because of the essential inconsistency between the structure of the economy and the goal of price stability, only a 3 to 4 year recession will reduce the inflation rate significantly. Professor Houthakker believes 1981 will be characterized by the slow real growth necessary to control inflation, which he expects to moderate slightly next year. Houthakker is not convinced further tightening is warranted and warns the Fed not to fine tune monetary policy. Professor Samuelson believes there is a 20-25 percent chance for a 1981 recession but 2 to 3 percent real growth is more likely. He feels that the inflation outlook is unfavorable and counsels the Fed to try to hit the money growth targets if the price is not exorbitant. Professor Tobin believes there is a good possibility that rising interest rates will cause a downturn next year, and he would not tighten monetary policy any further as a result. The financial consultants continue to urge the Fed to persist in its determination to reduce the inflation rate. Mr. Kaufman expects a slowing in the pace of recovery in the early part of 1981. At about the same time, he anticipates a temporary decline in short-term interest rates along with a wave of new corporate bond offerings. Mr. O'Leary strongly urges the Fed to continue pursuing a policy designed to reduce the inflation rate and to defuse expectations of inflation. Mr. Stone feels that the Fed should soon achieve success in slowing the aggregates sufficiently to meet its longer term growth targets. He perceives a drop in short-term rates over the balance of the year, and while he does not foresee a double dip recession, a pause in the recovery within the next three months should be expected.