Overview Economic activity in the Kansas City District remains sluggish. Purchasing agents report excess plant capacity and workers still on layoffs. Auto dealers report new models to be selling moderately well, but homebuilders report construction activity has slowed dramatically. Retailers report continued sluggishness in sales, although their expectations are for improvements in coming months. Corn and soybean yields are reported lower-than-normal because of drought conditions earlier this summer. Except for those regions involved in energy-related industries, both loan demand and deposit growth are reported by Tenth District banks to have been flat-to- lightly improved over the past month. Manufacturers' Inventories and Input Prices Purchasing agents contacted report that the growth in input prices has slowed in recent months, but that they expect renewed acceleration over the coming months. Most materials are in adequate supply and are expected to remain so throughout the winter. Most District firms are maintaining lean inventories and are ordering smaller quantities of materials than last year. Almost half the firms contacted have excess plant capacity, and still have some workers on layoff. Automobile Sales Automobile Dealers Associations report that the new models are selling moderately well and are expected to continue to do so in the coming months. High interest rates are inducing dealers to hold lower stocks which, along with tight manufacturer allocations, has caused some bottlenecks in the supply of some popular new models. Homebuilding and Home Finance Homebuilders Associations indicate that housing starts have stagnated after a brief upturn last summer. Prices of new homes are rising only slightly and excess inventories of unsold homes have not yet developed. High interest rates are expected to curtail sales in the near future, however. Savings and Loan Associations report savings inflows to have been quite strong recently. Demand for mortgage funds has slackened considerably since mortgage rates have again risen above 12 per cent. It is feared that mortgage rates, currently at 13 to 13 1/2 per cent, may rise further. Retail Sales and Inventories The majority of Tenth District retailers contacted indicate nominal retail sales since August to have been only slightly better than during the same period a year ago. Current dollar sales have apparently weakened noticeably in automotive and apparel merchandise while durable goods sales have shown slight improvement in the most recent months of this year. Merchandise costs have reportedly slowed in recent months. During the August-October period, most retailers have maintained the same markup over costs as in the past, but have had difficulties maintaining profit margins at past levels because of increased expenditures for promotional advertising and promotional price cutting. Most retailers report existing merchandise inventories to be excessive, primarily because of the weakness in sales. However, inventory levels are not being significantly trimmed because sales are expected to strengthen as the Christmas season approaches. Agriculture Harvesting of corn and soybeans in the Tenth District has been virtually completed. Most states report lower yields on both crops, due primarily to the drought conditions earlier this summer. In many areas of excellent cropland, yields fell 10 to 12 per cent below normal years. The number of farmers not expected to be credit worthy during 1981 is about twice what is usual. However, as a result of drought and hail this summer, many area farmers are eligible for low cost emergency loans from the Farmers Home Administration which may allow many to regain some financial stability. The winter wheat crop is in good condition throughout most of the District, although planted acreage is reported as lower- than-normal. Banking Developments Loan demand is reported flat-to-slightly higher at most Tenth District banks contacted this month. Exceptions are some banks in Wyoming and Oklahoma where energy-related loans continued to show significant strength. Demand for real estate loans has been mixed recently, with some bankers in Oklahoma, Wyoming, and New Mexico reporting continued moderate lending for commercial properties. Some of the banks contacted report weakening in consumer loans primarily due to automobile credit. Rural banks report slight declines in agricultural loans. All of the banks contacted have raised their prime or base lending rates within the past month. Some of the metropolitan area bankers currently have prime rates of 14 1/2 to 15 per cent, following the lead of large money center banks. Base fees at some country banks have recently increased to 16 1/2 per cent. Deposits at Tenth District banks contacted have been flat-to-significantly higher this past month. Regions involved in energy- related industries have recorded the greatest increases. Demand deposits are particularly strong in these areas, as are large CD's and money market certificates. In other regions of the Tenth District, the growth of deposits has been flat-to-slightly higher reflecting the trends in local loan demand.