Eleventh District economic activity rose at a steady pace in late April and May, and contacts were optimistic about future business conditions. Orders for nearly all manufactured products increased. The most notable exception was orders for semiconductors which continued to plunge, driven by lower-than-expected computer sales. Construction activity remained strong, boosting demand for most construction-related products. The financial services industry held steady, and retail sales improved slightly. Energy activity strengthened despite lower oil prices than reported in the last survey. Drought continued to hamper the agricultural sector. Prices and Wages Respondents in several industries noted rising price pressures. Prices were up for paper. brick, steel, cement, lumber and some chemicals, and prices stabilized for corrugated box liner after falling in previous months. In contrast, prices for semiconductors continued to fall. Contacts in construction-related industries, notably steel, brick, cement and glass, expected further price increases later in the year due to strong demand and dwindling inventories. High demand was reportedly causing rents to rise for office and warehouse space. Livestock prices remained low, but food processors said high grain prices continue to boost costs. In the energy industry, oil prices fell to near $20 per barrel after news of pending Iraqi sales of $1 billion per quarter, however, gasoline and natural gas prices are expected to remain strong through the summer. Reports of wage pressures were minimal, except for a few respondents who were concerned about rising costs associated with a higher minimum wage. Manufacturing Manufacturing orders rose steadily over the past six weeks. The most notable exception was semiconductor orders which continued to plunge. Contacts in the semiconductor industry said demand was down for all types of semiconductors, not just DRAMs as noted in previous reports, and inventories were rising. The weakness was attributed to slower-than-expected demand for computers and computer-related products. Contacts in the electronics industry were more pessimistic in their outlooks and did not expect orders to bottom out for another three to six months. On a more positive note, demand increased for most construction-related products. Respondents said an increase in brick orders had reduced inventories, and cement shortages were reportedly worsening due to a pickup in commercial and residential construction. Strong construction activity also boosted demand for glass, steel and other metal products, and inventories were on the small side. Contacts in the paper industry said demand for several products, including corrugated box liners and recycled paper, had bottomed out after falling for the past three months. Apparel manufacturers noted somewhat stronger demand due to an improving retail environment, and several had increased hiring recently. The Gulf Coast petrochemical market continued to improve, with good domestic demand, although profits have been pressured by higher costs of oil and natural gas feedstocks. Oil field machinery companies reported improving demand, driven by strong international and offshore drilling. Retail and Auto Sales Retail sales improved in May, thanks in large part to an increase in demand for women's apparel. Sales of lawn and garden materials were also strong according to respondents. Most contacts reported no inventory problems, but some retailers were letting their inventories thin by not adjusting to the recent increase in demand. Sales along the Texas-Mexico border continued to improve slowly. Auto sales remained brisk in late April and May, and several contacts said inventories were dwindling. Financial services Contacts in the financial services industry reported steady loan demand over the past six weeks. The only exception was residential refinancings which continued to fall. Contacts said demand for consumer and commercial real estate loans remained at good levels. District lenders expect loan demand to remain steady over the next three to twelve months. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate activity continued to rise, according to respondents. Homebuilders reported strong demand for new homes despite higher mortgage rates, and sales of existing homes were also brisk. Although apartment leasing remained strong, new completions caused some developers to make concessions, such as a free month's rent, in order to attract tenants. While downtown areas still have excess office space, contacts said suburban markets are the tightest they have been in over a decade and rents are rising as a result. Energy Despite slipping oil prices, energy industry activity improved over the past six weeks, according to contacts. Demand for oil services was driven by strong international, offshore and domestic drilling activity. Natural gas drilling in the Gulf of Mexico has virtually squeezed out oil drilling as producers seek to take advantage of expected high natural gas prices through the summer months. The global offshore market, including the Gulf of Mexico, is rig- constrained with significant investment necessary to bring more equipment on line. Agriculture Drought continues to impede agricultural production. Contacts rated crop conditions as mostly good to fair, although Texas winter wheat producers expect to harvest 27 percent less than both the 1995 crop and 1994 crop. Range and pasture conditions were rated as fair to very poor across the state, and livestock operators continue to downsize their herds in response to weak prices and high feed costs.