Economic growth in the Ninth District continues to quicken in late spring. Construction is strong in virtually all parts of the district. Natural resource industries, except for paper, are robust. Vehicle sales reportedly have improved from earlier in the year and general merchandise retailers report satisfactory business. Agricultural producers are generally optimistic in spite of late planting caused by adverse weather. Similarly, tourism got off to a late start due to cold, wet weather, but business owners and state tourism officials anticipate a good season. Manufacturing continues mixed, but on balance shows some invigoration. Except for products derived from grains or petroleum, there are few reports of price increases. Difficulty in securing needed workers is the most common complaint voiced in regard to labor markets. Construction and real estate "Home buyers find a lot to look at, housing prices up over 95's market" is a Sioux Falls, S.D., newspaper's characterization of residential real estate that could apply equally well to most other urban areas of the district. Construction is up from year-earlier levels and sales of new and existing homes are brisk in most areas. New permit applications in Sioux Falls for the four months through April were up some 75 percent from the same months in 1995. For the Minneapolis-St. Paul metro area the increase was 25 percent in the same period. Sales of new and existing housing are also lively in western Montana, especially Missoula. A report from Bismarck, N. D., describes "commercial construction at a blistering pace." Contracts for large projects continue to run slightly ahead of 1995 levels. Natural resource industries "More taconite, more jobs," was the headline of an article describing one firm's plans to reopen a processing plant at a Minnesota iron mine. Idled in 1980, the plant would add about 100 jobs and 1.3 million tons of annual output. "All seven Iron Range taconite plants are turning out pellets at near record levels," the article continues. In a similar vein, oil and gas drilling in North Dakota and Montana continues well above 1995 levels. In forest product industries, lumber mills and oriented-strand board plants are busy, but paper production continues down from a year ago and well below capacity. Agriculture "The outlook is good if the crop materializes," reports one North Dakota banker responding to the Minneapolis Fed quarterly survey of agricultural credit conditions. That view is shared in all states of the district. Planting lagged two to four weeks behind long-term averages, but moisture conditions are generally favorable except in eastern North Dakota where many areas are too wet. While most crops were planted in time to allow maturation before fall frosts, some potential yield has been lost and weather conditions will need to be ideal for the crop to be much above average. Hog prices are higher than anticipated, shielding producers somewhat from the effects of sharply higher feed costs. Conditions for beef producers remain grim, and bankers report that they expect the number of ranch liquidations to rise perceptibly this year. Interest rates on farm loans rose slightly in the second quarter, and bankers' expectations of loan repayment, farm income and capital spending continue to improve in most areas except where cattle ranching predominates. Manufacturing "Business is quite good, especially on exports," says a purchasing manager at a large Minneapolis food processor. "I'd say things are a little slow," reports the CEO of one N. D., manufacturing firm, "but we expect it to pick up pretty soon." Such comments illustrate the mixed conditions faced by Ninth District manufacturers. None report delays in receiving raw materials or any other evidence of rapid growth in their sector. Inventories are generally reported as normal. Reports for publicly traded manufacturers generally show good sales and earnings growth over year-earlier levels, particularly for food processors and farm and construction machinery manufacturers. On balance, indications of growth appear to predominate, and those firms reporting slow sales now expect some improvement in the next few months. Consumer spending "First quarter retail sales tax is coming in a bit above projections and about 4 percent above last year," reports a North Dakota state tax official. That seems typical of retail sales in many areas not booming but up from a year ago and strengthening. Mall managers and regional retailers report good business, though few use superlatives in their descriptions. Auto sales are reportedly "stable" in Montana, "pretty good" in Minnesota, and "still good" in South Dakota. New vehicle registrations in these states are slightly ahead of 1995 levels for the year to date, with most of the improvement in April and May. Tourism "Tourist season off to damp start," headlined a description of slow business for South Dakota tourism firms as snow fell at Mt. Rushmore on the Memorial Day weekend. But in spite of a slow start, some are optimistic. "We're looking for our best year ever, our reservations are up about 20 percent above last year," said one park manager. The situation seems very similar in the rest of district states, a late start due to cold, wet weather, but optimism about the coming season. Employment, wages and prices "Perhaps we should call them 'discouraged employers,"' said a Minnesota state official describing the growing phenomenon of firms that want to hire additional skilled workers, but stop advertising because no candidates are forthcoming. Printers and computer-aided design and manufacturing technicians were cited as in especially short supply. One Minnesota firm offered a drawing for a free Las Vegas vacation to employees who brought in a new hire. A Minnesota economic development official said that labor availability has displaced incentives, taxes and other business climate issues as the primary concern of firms seeking to establish plants. This parallels the dilemma that eastern South Dakota has faced for some time; it is difficult to attract new industry when labor seems short. "We have the person who posts price changes doing filing," says a Minnesota plumbing supply wholesaler who describes a few increases in copper and polyvinyl chloride pipe as offset by declines in prices of furnaces and other manufactured items. While fuel prices have received much attention, the average pump price for gasoline in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area at the end of May was only 6 percent above year-earlier levels. Grain prices remain at historic levels in nominal terms, and flour price increases now roughly parallel those of wheat after lagging somewhat earlier in the year. But there is little evidence of price pressure at the supermarket. Beef is frequently on sale and aggressive promotions of breakfast cereals and some other processed foods have helped minimize food price increases.