Summary Reports from contacts in the Twelfth District indicated continued strong economic activity in recent months, with some hints of an acceleration in economic growth. Residential real estate sales volumes and construction generally moved higher, and moderate growth of consumer spending continued. District manufacturing activity picked up in recent months, particularly among suppliers of building-related products. Although businesses are increasingly optimistic about the outlook for regional and national economic growth, about one-third of respondents expect inflation to worsen over the next four quarters. Business Sentiment Businesses are increasingly optimistic about the outlook for national and regional economic growth, with about 90 percent of respondents now expecting national growth over the next four quarters to match or exceed its long-run average pace, up from a recent low of about 40 percent in February. More than half of business contacts expect no substantial change in national unemployment or inflation in the near term, but about 37 percent of respondents expect inflation to worsen over the next four quarters, up from 19 percent in February. Respondents' expectations for regional economic growth are particularly optimistic, with about 70 percent predicting better growth in the region than in the U.S. as a whole. Retail Trade and Services Retail sales in most District states reportedly were strong and increasing in recent months. Many respondents from the fast- growing Intermountain states identified auto sales as a spending category with particularly large gains, but spending on nondurables, such as food and clothing, also was reported to be up noticeably in these states. Retail sales appear to be accelerating in Washington, after slowing around the turn of the year. Within California, retail spending reportedly has been particularly strong in the San Francisco Bay Area, and most respondents from Southern California noted a firming of consumer spending there. Throughout the District, retailers have experienced increased shipping costs from the spike in fuel costs, and most report the fast passthrough of such higher costs to retail prices. Tourism activity reportedly is increasing in California, Utah, and some other District states. Hotel occupancy rates reportedly have been high in recent months, although some respondents did express concern that plans for long-distance driving vacations could be affected by the run-up in gasoline prices. Among other service- producing industries, computer-related business services activity reportedly is increasing rapidly in Washington and Northern California, where demand for telecommunications services also remains strong. Long-distance trucking services remain in high demand throughout the District, despite the recent introduction of fuel surcharges by shipping companies. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity picked up in recent months, particularly among suppliers of building-related products. Manufacturers of construction machinery reportedly benefited from increased sales, and orders for wood products such as lumber were solid. In the Pacific Northwest, manufacturers of specialty construction items were having trouble keeping up with the strong pace of orders, so delivery lags lengthened. Among other investment goods, order backlogs for machine tools were reported to be high; demand for computing equipment remained robust, but the pace of increase appeared to slow a bit. The inventory correction which has dampened production in industries such as steel, autos, and selected other consumer goods, was perceived to be near completion. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries District agricultural producers report mixed conditions. Western cattle ranchers lament a continued drop in cattle prices, as livestock producers still have not worked off excess inventory. In California, production of nuts, tree fruits and grapes appears to be slightly down this season, although grape producers are benefiting from very high demand for wine grapes. Real Estate and Construction District real estate markets were relatively strong in recent months. Respondents noted increasing home sales volumes and prices, and residential building activity also increased. The growth of new residential construction was particularly strong in Oregon, Utah, and Idaho. Within California, real estate and residential construction activity continued to be mixed, with stronger conditions in the San Francisco Bay Area than in the Central Valley and Southern California. Financial Institutions District bank respondents generally report wide availability of credit, with high levels of bank liquidity, strong capital positions, and healthy earnings. Loan volumes were reported to be increasing at selected banks. Increased economic activity reportedly is fueling a strong loan market in the San Francisco Bay Area. However, some California banks are experiencing slower loan growth, with much of the weakness centered in consumer loans and first mortgages. In Washington, loan volumes are robust, particularly in the commercial and industrial lines. Some bank respondents reported difficulties hiring bank tellers at the prevailing wages, particularly in the tightest labor markets, such as Salt Lake City and Las Vegas.