Summary The Seventh District economy expanded at a slightly higher rate in May and early June than earlier in the year, led by a moderately expanding manufacturing sector. Retail sales continued to improve through April and May, while inclement weather dampened the sale of seasonal items and delayed many housing and construction projects in the District. Manufacturing activity continued to post modest gains in May, led by increased orders and production. Banking activity remained strong in most categories, although margins continued to be squeezed by competition for loans. Labor markets remained tight, manufacturers were increasing their payrolls, and spot shortages of qualified workers persisted. Grain prices retreated from record levels, but District farmers remained well behind in their plantings. Retail sales Retail sales in the District continued to improve through April and May and were up slightly in year-over-year comparisons. Several large retailers reported that sales growth in the Midwest was slightly below their national average. Most retailers reported that sales could have been better, but inclement weather hampered the sale of seasonal goods. Most contacts reported that inventories were in line with target levels for the coming Father's Day and summer sales events. The retail environment continued to be very competitive and a survey of small retailers in Michigan suggested that sales gains resulted from increasing promotional efforts. Auto dealers and distributors in the District reported that sales were very strong in May. One dealer reported that showroom traffic was up, model availability was adequate, and expectations remained high. Analysts at a June auto conference in the District reported raising their sales forecasts for the second half of 1996, although sales are not expected to continue at the strong pace set in the first half. Housing/construction Housing and construction activity slowed moderately in May and early June, but District sources attribute the bulk of this slowdown to inclement weather. New home sales increased slightly in April, but a survey of homebuilders suggested that sales in the Midwest were off moderately in May. Conversations with builders across the District confirm a May downturn, but one builder stated that the downturn was "75 percent weather, 25 percent (the recent rise in mortgage) interest rates." Realtors also reported a weather-related slowdown in traffic through existing homes in May. However, most builders and realtors contacted believe that the market is still very strong. In addition, the national survey showed that Midwest builders were the most optimistic for the coming six months, although the rise in mortgage interest rates had dampened their optimism slightly. Lumber and cement dealers in the District reported a slowdown in shipments in May, but also noted that shipments picked up in early June. These dealers believe that most construction has been delayed due to inclement weather, not canceled, and have raised their expectations for the third quarter. Manufacturing Overall manufacturing activity in the District increased modestly in May and early June, while scattered pockets of softness persisted from earlier in the year. Purchasing managers' surveys from around the District continued to indicate solid gains in new orders and production, although backlogs continued to contract. Inventories varied from reports of accumulations in Michigan, some of which were intended, to liquidations in Wisconsin. The surveys were mixed with regard to prices paid, with declines reported in Michigan and increases reported in Wisconsin (primarily for commodities such as copper, aluminum, and fuel). An appliance industry analyst reported record high appliance shipments to dealers in April and shipments continued to indicate strength through May. However, some unplanned inventory building was also occurring. Several steel producers reported that order books were full through the third quarter, although competition from new capacity coming on stream over the next several months was restraining price increases. A diversified producer of specialized machinery, including material handling equipment, noted that orders were up in May and were well up year-to-date. Analysts cited continued softness in the heavy construction and heavy-duty truck industries, but in both cases, orders through May were slightly better than the industry had expected earlier in the year. Banking Reports from District bankers continued to be upbeat, although competition was widely described as being intense. Most contacts reported that consumer lending activity continued to be strong, with one bank reporting some pickup in loans for the financing of new car leases. Although home refinancing activity virtually stopped in recent weeks, new originations remained fairly strong. One banker noted that loan demand for low-end housing was doing much better than for luxury homes. C&I lending continued at a high level in May, with some contacts reporting continued solid growth while others noted a decline from the peak levels reached in late 1995. While credit quality remained generally high and delinquencies remained low in recent weeks, one banker expressed concern over the increase in local bankruptcies, especially among older businesses (including several retailers). Despite the high lending volume, bankers generally reported downward pressure on margins, with new banks moving into local markets and customers becoming more selective in their choice of banks. Labor markets Employment remained at record levels for the District through May and early June and spot labor shortages continued. A national survey of employers reported that Midwest employers continued to have the most optimistic hiring plans of any region heading into the third quarter, led by expected strength in the manufacturing and construction industries. Manufacturing employment rebounded in April after two months of slight decline, and purchasing managers' surveys from around the District suggested that moderate growth in manufacturing payrolls had continued through May. Construction employment increased seasonally despite adverse weather conditions across much of the District which hindered the progress of many projects. Several sources reported that shortages of qualified workers persisted in most major markets, but may be easing somewhat due to a summer influx of students into the temporary labor force. Increases in the starting wage of entry-level workers over the last year seem to have tapered off. However, several contacts reported that most employers were willing to pay slightly more to keep good employees. Temporary help agencies reported a shift from temporary to temp-to-permanent assignments, suggesting employer optimism about continued strength in the economy. Agriculture Cash and futures grain prices recently moved lower from record highs as export demand waned and favorable weather conditions improved prospects for the wheat harvest and allowed farmers to make progress in planting corn and soybeans. However, prices remained well above year-earlier levels. Despite recent progress, the pace of crop plantings continued to lag in District states. Corn planting in Indiana and Michigan was significantly delayed and progress in soybean planting was also running behind the normal pace in all District states. In contrast, corn planting in Iowa was nearing completion. Many planted cornfields were plagued by cool temperatures and excessive rainfall, leading to low surviving plant populations and forcing farmers to consider the added expense and uncertainty of replanting.