Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest economic activity continued to advance at a moderate pace in May and early June. Nearly all districts report expanding activity, and several indicate the pace of growth accelerated recently. The retail and service industries generally strengthened, and manufacturing activity improved in several districts. Residential and commercial construction activity also picked up in most districts, although wet weather hampered homebuilding in some areas. Loan demand increased in most districts, despite a decline in mortgage lending. In the natural resource industries, agriculture was hurt in several districts by unfavorable weather and low cattle prices, while energy activity increased in regions producing oil and natural gas.Several districts note rising prices for some raw and intermediate products, especially building materials, petroleum products, and grain. Evidence of rising prices for retail products, however, was much less widespread. Most districts continued to report tight labor markets for both entry-level and skilled workers, although indications of rising wages remained scattered. Retail Retail sales strengthened in nearly all districts, with sales generally exceeding year-ago levels. The only exceptions were the Boston and New York districts. In the Boston district, retailers indicated that recent sales were disappointing, especially in off- price discount stores, but they were generally optimistic about sales prospects during the remainder of the year. In the New York district, sales slowed slightly in early June after exceeding expectations in May.Recent sales gains followed normal seasonal patterns in most districts. Retailers in the New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas districts report strong sales of seasonal items such as air conditioners, men's and women's apparel, and lawn and garden products. In the Cleveland and Chicago districts, however, unusually wet weather slowed sales of home improvement products and other seasonal items.Automobile sales remained strong in most districts. Dealers in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, and St. Louis districts attribute part of the recent sales strength to various sales incentive programs. Some popular models were in short supply in the Cleveland and Kansas City districts. The Philadelphia district, however, reports weak sales of heavy trucks. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity improved in several regions, while pockets of weakness remained in some districts. Districts reporting generally improved manufacturing activity include Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. Reports from the Cleveland, Atlanta, and St. Louis districts indicate manufacturing activity was uneven or flat.Activity improved in a wide range of industries. Both consumer and capital-goods industries improved in the Boston district. In the Richmond, Chicago, and San Francisco districts, industrial machine and tool manufacturing strengthened. Construction-related industries were strong in the Dallas and San Francisco districts. Conditions in the oil field equipment industry improved in the Dallas district.Some districts report weak spots in manufacturing activity, however. In the Boston district, demand for hospital equipment was weak, reportedly due to lower cost health care plans. The heavy truck and construction equipment industries remained soft in the Cleveland and Chicago districts. In the Dallas district, the semiconductor industry remained weak, due to a slump in demand for computers and related products. Services Service activity continued to expand in districts reporting on this sector. In the Boston district, demand for temporary workers continued to strengthen. Service producers in the Richmond district indicate that employment rose in May, although revenues declined slightly. The San Francisco district reports strong demand for computer-related services, telecommunications, and long-distance trucking. The tourism industry remained robust. The New York district reports hotel occupancy in New York City remained at a 16-year high. In the Richmond district, tourism activity picked up in May despite wet weather. The Atlanta district reports strong gains in attendance at Florida hotels and theme parks and rising gambling revenues in Mississippi. Also, the approaching Olympic Games have apparently boosted passenger traffic at Atlanta's Hartsfield International Airport. In the Minneapolis district, the tourism industry holds optimistic expectations for the summer, even though the season's start was delayed by cold, wet weather. Construction and Real Estate Residential real estate activity generally strengthened in most districts, including New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. Signs of sluggishness emerged in some districts, however. Housing sales slowed in some parts of the Boston and New York districts. Builders in the Richmond district report declining buyer interest in new homes, although housing sales rose. In the Chicago district, wet weather slowed homebuilding and sales, but builders expected a stronger third quarter.Commercial real estate activity continued to improve in most districts. The Philadelphia, Richmond, and Atlanta districts report declining office vacancy rates, higher rents, and gains in commercial construction activity. The Minneapolis district reports solid gains in contracts for large projects. In the Dallas district, the tightest supply of suburban office space in a decade was pushing up rents. A few districts report a weakening in commercial activity. The New York district reports office vacancy rates edged up in New York City in May. In the St. Louis district, commercial construction slowed in some areas of Tennessee and Arkansas. Banking and Finance Overall loan demand rose in most districts, although demand for commercial loans and consumer loans varied among the districts. Demand for commercial and industrial loans was strong in the New York, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco districts, and was flat to down slightly in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, and St. Louis districts. Demand for consumer loans was strong in the Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas districts, and flat to down slightly in the New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis, and San Francisco districts. The Cleveland and Chicago districts report intense competition among lenders. Mortgage lending and refinancing declined in most districts. In the Boston district, assets managed and employment at investment management firms strengthened. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Agriculture was hurt in several districts by unfavorable weather and low cattle prices. Wet weather delayed the planting of spring crops and slowed crop development in the Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City districts. The Cleveland and Chicago districts report that more favorable weather recently enabled corn and soybean planting to progress. Recent rains improved crop conditions in some parts of the Richmond district. The wet weather arrived too late in the Kansas City district, however, to avert an expected sharp decline in winter wheat production caused by drought earlier in the year. In the Dallas district, drought sharply reduced the expected size of the winter wheat crop and trimmed pasture and forage supplies. The St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco districts report unfavorable conditions in the livestock industry, due to low cattle prices and high feed costs.Energy activity improved somewhat in the Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas districts, despite declining energy prices. The Minneapolis district reports stronger iron mining activity and mixed conditions in the forest products industry. Prices and Wages Prices advanced for some raw and intermediate materials in several districts, especially for building materials, petroleum-based products, and agricultural commodities. Evidence of rising prices for finished products and at the retail level was less widespread. The Boston, Kansas City, and Dallas districts report higher prices for building materials, including lumber. Prices for packaging materials, some plastics, machinery, and steel were up in the Atlanta district. Higher wheat prices pushed up flour prices in the Minneapolis district, but otherwise had little effect on retail food prices. Manufacturers in the Boston and Richmond districts report rising product prices, but flat to slightly lower materials prices. In the St. Louis district, some manufacturers report difficulty in raising product prices due to highly competitive markets. Retail prices held steady in the Boston, St. Louis, and Kansas City districts and rose more slowly in May than in April in the Richmond district. Retailers in the New York district, however, indicated that a decline in price discounting was boosting effective retail prices. Most districts continued to report tight labor markets for both entry-level and skilled workers. The Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis, and Kansas City districts report a tight market for retail workers. In the Boston and Chicago districts, the number of temporary workers shifting to permanent assignments was increasing. Markets for skilled laborers remained tight in the Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis and Kansas City districts. The Boston district reports that a tight local labor market has prompted area businesses to recruit professional workers from other parts of the country. Reports of rising wages are scattered, despite widespread tightness in labor markets. The Boston district reports rising wages in manufacturing. In the St. Louis district, some fast-food establishments offer wages above the minimum wage and include a signing bonus. The approaching Olympic Games were pushing up entry-level wages in the Atlanta district.