Overview Economic activity grew moderately in the Fifth District in May, with some firms straining capacity, but others experiencing weaker demand. Retail activity picked up while service-sector activity was mixed. Manufacturing activity continued to grow moderately overall, and some manufacturers indicated that capacity constraints limited further growth. Tourism grew at a faster pace and real estate activity strengthened. Mortgage loan demand weakened, but consumer loan demand strengthened. Markets for inputs, especially labor, tightened. Scattered price pressures were reported; expectations of future price increases were more widespread in manufacturing, but less apparent in the service sector. In agriculture, crop conditions improved. Retail Trade Retailers surveyed reported faster growth in retail sales, employment, average wages, big-ticket sales, and shopper traffic. Respondents also reported an increase in inventory growth. Retail prices rose more slowly in May and retailers expected their prices to rise more slowly during the next six months than they had in April. They anticipated a decrease in demand for their products over the next six months. Service Production Service producers surveyed by mail reported mixed activity in May. Revenues declined slightly and employment growth increased in May from April. Average wages increased faster in May. Service producers said prices rose more quickly in May than they had in April. Respondents expected demand for their product to soften over the next six months, and believed that their prices would rise more slowly. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity continued to expand at a moderate pace in May, and tight inputs markets constrained some firms. Except in Virginia, respondents to a mail survey reported faster growth in shipments. Virginia manufacturers said their production was hampered by a scarcity of skilled labor. A boat manufacturer and a textile producer also indicated that tight labor markets limited their production. Durable-goods producers were upbeat, reporting that new orders had strengthened in May. Several suppliers of industrial machinery and equipment reported that their lead time lengthened recently because demand strengthened and one said delays in receiving inputs reduced output at his firm. Manufacturers indicated that finished goods prices increased and raw materials prices decreased in May from April. Respondents' six-month outlook was for higher finished goods and raw material prices. Tourism Tourist activity continued to pick up in May, despite a rainy Memorial Day weekend that dampened beach activity in some areas. Baltimore contacts attributed increased tourism to the Orioles' baseball team while respondents from mountain resorts cited vacation packages that emphasized golf and skeet shooting. Contacts reported that summer bookings looked good. However, one respondent from a popular North Carolina coastal area said tourist activity there was the slowest it has been in the last 10 years. Contacts expected summer rates to increase by 3.8 percent to 6.5 percent after adjusting for inflation. Port Activity Activity at District ports changed little in April from March and from a year ago. Port representatives continued to expect exports and imports to increase during the next six months, with exports expected to rise faster than imports. Several port contacts said that an increasing number of ship lines were entering into vessel sharing agreements, an arrangement that the contacts believed would lead to more ships calling at their ports during the next six months. Temporary Employment The demand for temporary workers increased in May. Demand was especially strong for light-industrial laborers and customer-service representatives. Several temporary agencies reported that their clients increasingly opted to use "contingent" workers rather than hire permanent employees. However, a North Carolina contact indicated that less employee turnover at firms in his area had reduced the demand for temporary workers. Temporary workers' wages changed little in May, although slight increases were reported in a few localities with low unemployment and for computer- skilled workers. Contacts generally expected stable wages during the next six months. Finance District contacts indicated that overall lending activity changed little in May. District mortgage loan companies said that demand weakened noticeably; one Virginia contact described demand as "crummy." Mortgage lenders reported particular weakness in refinancing activity and two contacts indicated that refinancings occurred only in cases of extreme financial necessity. Consumer lending strengthened during May but some respondents expected activity to moderate in coming weeks. Descriptions of commercial lending ranged from very weak to very strong. Several contacts indicated business loans were mainly being used to finance activities other than fixed capital investment. District banks generally reported that they were "cautiously optimistic" about future loan demand. Residential Real Estate Residential real estate sales rose in May, but builders in some areas reported stagnant growth. Realtors reported increases in sales and customer traffic; some contacts describing the market as "terrific" and "outstanding." However, homebuilders indicated that customer interest in new homes declined; one builder reported that the weak market had forced her company out of business. Wages and materials prices increased. Several contacts said that higher petroleum prices had increased the cost of transported materials, such as lumber and concrete. Commercial Real Estate A telephone survey of commercial real estate brokers suggested that commercial real estate activity picked up in May and early June. Leasing activity remained brisk and, except in the District of Columbia, vacancy rates fell. Commercial rents increased, continuing a trend which began last November. The availability of prime office space continued to tighten, and nearly half the respondents reported shortages, particularly for large blocks of space. Contacts continued to report an increase in new construction, and one District of Columbia contact reported the construction of a new speculative office building there, an anomaly in recent years. State Revenues State tax collections were flat in the Carolinas but were higher in the other District states. Contacts across the District reported that strong 1995 capital gains led to higher May estimated tax payments. North Carolina and Virginia contacts said corporate tax collections were down significantly because of lower profits. Retail sales collections were higher in the District of Columbia, Maryland and South Carolina and real estate recordation receipts rose in Maryland, North Carolina, and West Virginia. Agriculture On balance, agricultural conditions improved in May and early June according to District analysts. Spring planting was almost complete. Recent rains brought relief to crops in dry areas of South Carolina, but led to flooding in some areas of West Virginia. Cooler temperatures caused some scattered freeze damage to the already-poor fruit crop. Despite these episodes, the weather was generally favorable for crops, and most were in good condition.