General Business Conditions District business conditions remain firm and are generally expanding at a moderate or better pace. Although employment growth has been lackluster over the past few months, many regions report jobless rates well below the national average. In a few areas, such as central Ohio and northern Kentucky, unemployment stands at less than 4 percent. Although firms are having difficulty finding and retaining qualified workers in a variety of industries, occupations, and regions, only scattered reports of significant wage acceleration have been noted. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity continues to move ahead, although at a slightly uneven pace by industry. New orders growth, which had been quite strong in March and April, appears to have waned a bit recently. New export orders have been reasonably robust, however, and steel producers are noting reduced competition from imports. Orders strength is also reported in areas related to passenger cars and building and construction materials. Two notably weak areas in the industrial orders data are heavy trucks and industrial hydraulics. Production continues to rise at a moderate pace. However, as has been the case over much of the past few years, higher output levels appear to be supported by increased hours and productivity gains, rather than by a significant growth in payrolls. Capital-goods production continues to lead the industrial growth categories, although stronger production levels are reported in most industries. Increased cost pressures are centered in petroleum-based products, including diesel fuel and a variety of plastics. Downward price movements are reported in paper products. Consumers May was a relatively good month for District retailers. Sales of men's and women's sportswear were especially strong. However, wet weather may have been a negative factor for sales of home improvement and lawn and garden items, which were heavily promoted. Retail inventories continue to dwindle, and most are reported at or very near their desired levels. The labor market for skilled retail workers is characterized as tight. Auto sales were fairly strong across the District in May, and most dealers reported improved sales over the previous few months. Warmer temperatures and the continuation of factory incentives are generally credited for the enhanced performance. Several sources indicated that replenished inventories were also a contributing factor. Dealers currently report that inventories are at or just slightly above desired levels, although some of the most popular models are still in short supply. Agriculture Heavy rains and cool weather delayed the start of the District's planting season. Virtually all Fourth District acreage is currently underplanted, although conditions improve as you move south into Kentucky. Wet weather also has exacerbated plant disease, reduced suitable grazing acreage, and slowed the harvest of feed crops, including alfalfa. Timely breaks in the weather have allowed significant progress in planting during the past few weeks, however, easing what was a critical situation for many crops, particularly corn. With high grain prices and low stocks, some farmers are having difficulty delivering on "hedge-to-arrive" contracts with grain elevators. This, in turn, has created problems for some grain elevators that have sold futures in commodity markets, and a portion of these are reported to be seeking additional credit to meet margin calls. In Ohio, only a few such cases are considered to be serious. Banking and Credit Loan demands appear to have firmed somewhat in the past month, particularly in the consumer sector, where borrowing activity is generally described as strong. Lending patterns are quite mixed by institution, however. Credit extensions are reportedly up in both the automobile and credit card categories. Commercial credit growth is said to have slowed since the last District report, though, and a few large institutions have noted a substantial drop-off in commercial credit extensions over the past several weeks. Competition for borrowers remains fierce, and credit quality is an ongoing issue at many institutions. Still, judged against historical patterns, loan delinquencies and charge-offs are low.