Overview The pace of economic expansion appear" to have slowed recently. Retail sales are strong and retailers are optimistic. Manufacturing activity continues to use but at a reduced pace from earlier this year. Retail and manufacturer's inventories appear to be close to desired levels. No strong upward price pressures are reported. Sales and starts of new houses are slowing. Rising interest rates and adverse weather are reported to be hurting the firm sector. Loan demand continues to grow in most districts. Retail Sales Retail sales for May and early June are reported to be strong and better than expected in most districts. Year-over-year gains of between 10 percent and 20 percent are common. Sales of summer apparel, fans, air conditioners, outdoor furniture and grills were stimulated by exceptionally hot weather in the east. Minneapolis reports sales, depressed by cold weather in May, are firming in June. Inventories are generally at satisfactory levels, although a few districts report them to be slightly larger than desired. Retailers are optimistic about the outlook for sales during the remainder at 1984. Automobile sales continue to be strong, although St. Louis notes that sales are sluggish at sane dealers. San Francisco reports auto sales at their highest level since the late 1970s, are being supported by subsidized financing by dealers, and some auto dealers in the Cleveland district say that consumer lending rates haven't risen enough to damp sales. St. Louis observes that small cars are selling better than large cars, and Minneapolis reports recreational vehicles sealing exceptionally well. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity continues to expand, but at a slower pace than earlier this year. Manufacturing employment is rising slowly in most districts. Production of aluminum, paper, tires, heavy-duty trucks and trailers, and medium- and full-sized cars is reported by various districts to be at full capacity. Demand for electronic equipment continues its strong growth. San Francisco reports lumber producers are cutting payrolls because of the national homebuilding slowdown, and Atlanta adds that softening housing demand has also cut the furniture industry's demand for lumber. Various districts report foreign competition is crimping production of copper, steel, furniture, and machine tools. Dallas, however, notes strong production growth and lengthening lead tines for primary metals. Modernization and cost cutting are still emphasized in capital investment but there are a few reports of capacity expansion. Boston reports demand for capital goods used by the energy, steel, and farm equipment industries remains depressed. Inventories are generally near desired levels and are growing slowly. There are only a few reports of shortages and lengthening lead times. Price increases are being restrained by vigorous domestic and foreign competition. Cleveland reports that major steel producers expect little or no profit this year because of weak prices. Construction and Real Estate Sales and starts of new houses slowed in May and early June in most districts in response to rising mortgage interest rates. Chicago reports lenders have tightened credit standards. San Francisco notes the slowing has been moderated by "increased public acceptance of adjustable rate mortgages and the increased offerings on 'buy-down' programs by builders." Dallas observes caution in multifamily construction because of fears of overbuilding, but St. Louis reports some building of apartments. In contrast, New York reports house sales and starts are so strong that some builders have "suspended" sales because they are producing at capacity, and Richmond says the trend in housing construction is quite strong. Nonresidential construction is reported to be strong by San Francisco and New York, "active" by Minneapolis, and down by Atlanta. Dallas reports a decline nonresidential construction. Atlanta reports lumber prices are falling while Kansas City reports price increases for sheetrock and cement. According to Chicago, a shortage of gypsum board has ended because builders and distributors have stopped adding to inventory. Dallas comments that the high level of construction has some lumber, concrete, and brick plants running multiple shifts. Agriculture The agricultural sector is reported to be hurt by rising interest rates and bad weather. Reports of adverse weather are widespread. Droughts, blizzards, and excessive rain are reported to be hampering agricultural production. Minneapolis comments that many counties in that district have been declared disaster areas because of weather. San Francisco notes that abundant vegetable harvests have pushed prices to or below the break-even point for many producers. Rising interest rates and weak income prospects are reported to be placing extreme financial pressure on some farmers. Minneapolis reports that it is increasingly difficult for banks to find acceptable agricultural loans. In the St. Louis district, this year's crops are reported to be "critical" to the financial survival of many farmers. Kansas City says bankers in that district are concerned by the "increasing number of farm bankruptcies." Energy Cleveland reports coal production is rising as users increase inventories as a strike hedge. Richmond reports coal output has risen significantly in 1984 but is facing strong foreign competition. San Francisco reports the coal industry is laying off workers because of foreign competition. Dallas reports oil drilling activity is substantially above the year-earlier level, and drill pipe inventories have fallen to desired levels. Atlanta reports better prospects for its energy sector because of "sharply lower drilling costs" and rising demand for oil. Commercial Banking Several districts report commercial end industrial loan demand is growing strongly. Philadelphia says commercial and industrial lending has been "especially strong" in the last six weeks. An exception is Cleveland where business lending has not expanded in the last month. Consumer installment lending is "brisk" in Philadelphia and "robust" in Cleveland, but down in St. Louis. A few districts report rapid deposit growth and Atlanta says banks are very liquid. San Francisco notes a large runoff of funds from money market deposit accounts. Two districts comment on the safety of deposits: St. Louis reports that "a few corporate treasurers have expressed concern about banking problems, and have lowered some balances to decrease exposure at any one institution," and San Francisco notes that some depositors at a few smaller institutions have shifted some deposits into U.S. Treasury securities.