With the exception or the agricultural sector, favorable economic trends continue in the Ninth District. Unemployment rates continue to fall, and both consumer spending and commercial investment continue to grow. Both deposits and loans are up. But the agricultural sector continues to be plagued by bad weather, low prices, and cash flow problems. As a result, smaller cities and towns dependent on agriculture are not faring as well as larger, more diversified cities. Employment District labor market conditions continue to improve, partly due to seasonal factors. The Ninth District seasonally adjusted unemployment rate fell very slightly to 6.5 percent in April. While the unadjusted unemployment rate for Minnesota fell from 7.1 percent in March to 6.5 percent in April, analysts attribute most of the decline to seasonal factors. Initial unemployment claims in Minnesota continued to seasonally decline, and average weekly manufacturing earnings there rose. The Minneapolis help-wanted advertising index rose a bit in April. In South Dakota, the unadjusted unemployment rate also fell in April, to only 4.5 percent. The district is facing some major labor market developments-both positive and negative. Another large bank is moving its credit card operation to Sioux Falls, South Dakota, creating hundreds of jobs, and a home appliance manufacturer is adding a few hundred workers to its plant there. But 6,000 hospital nurses are on strike in the Twin Cities, and a large iron pellet plant in northern Minnesota recently announced that it is planning a shutdown in August. Consumer Spending General merchandise sales grew only moderately in May, but sales appear to be firming up in June. One large merchandiser reports that its sales rose only 5 percent between this May and last. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, another large merchandiser's May sales were less than expected. Both merchandisers attribute part of the problem to slack summer wear sales induced by cold, wet weather. Both merchandisers also have experienced strong sales so far in June, though. This Bank's director reports are similar. One director says that home appliance sales, while strong, slowed in South Dakota in May. Another director notes that while cold weather in May flattened general retail sales in southern Minnesota, these sales have been picking up so far in June. Motor vehicle purchases are maintaining the strength apparent earlier this year. Regional managers of domestic auto companies report continuing good performance. One of them expects record second quarter sales and has less than two months inventories of both cars and trucks. Another reports this May's car sales up 22 percent over last May's. Recreational vehicles are selling exceptionally will. While generally good auto sales reports have come from the bigger cities in the Dakotas, the picture is mixed in Montana. Housing activity appears to have firmed after some bad weather slowed it in March. Twin Cities housing permits and home sales rose sharply in April. A leading mortgage banking firm singled out the Minneapolis-St. Paul area as one of the few areas in the nation in which sales were still gaining. Activity has been strong in larger cities throughout the rest of the district, but slow in agriculturally dependent smaller cities and towns. Commercial Construction Commercial construction remains active in cities throughout the district. Builders are expecting a record year in Billings and Bozeman, Montana. A newspaper editor reports a lot of commercial construction in the Fargo, North Dakota, area. A Chamber of Commerce official in Aberdeen, South Dakota, notes that over $2 million in building permits were issued there in May, primarily for commercial projects. Finance Both deposits and loans have risen recently in the district. Outstanding commercial and industrial loans at large Ninth District banks rose 3.4 percent throughout May, to a level of $4.4 billion. Total Deposits at those banks rose 5.9 percent throughout May. Scattered evidence indicates that deposits are holding up even in some agriculturally dependent regions. Acceptable agricultural loans are becoming increasingly harder to find, though. Agriculture Despite some recent crop price increases, the agricultural economy still being plagued by some low prices, bad weather, and cash flow problems. Corn and soybean prices have risen, but milk and hog prices are still low. A blizzard late in April caused substantial livestock losses in Montana and South Dakota. One bank director notes that northeastern Montana recently suffered from the worst drought since the 1930s. Torrential rains gave that area some relief, but at the same time destroyed some crops in parts of the Dakotas and Minnesota. Many counties in the district have been declared disaster areas because of this bad weather, thus making farmers eligible for emergency loans. A Bank director recently surveyed agricultural lenders in the Dakotas. Less than 20 percent of the survey's respondents thought that farm cash flows would be better in 1984 than in 1983, which itself was not a good year for many farmers in the district. Accordingly, the majority of respondents expected to deny more credit requests this year than last. Another director notes that dairy operations continue to face severe cash flow problems.