The pace of economic growth is continuing to slow in the Southeast. For the first time in several months, job growth did not outrun labor force increases and the unemployment rate stabilized. However, a number of industries remain quite strong, including some textiles, paper, and the full gamut of auto-related manufacturing. Consumer spending, and especially auto sales, is growing briskly, but signs of weakness are surfacing in housing and related markets. Mortgage commitments and lending activity at financial institutions have weakened. Tourism is showing growth from a year ago, but attendance has been far below expectations at the New Orleans' World's Fair. Excessively dry, hot weather again threatens southeastern farm incomes. Employment and Industry The unemployment rate in the District edged upward to the nation's rate in April after declining in each of the five preceding months. Florida's unemployment rate increased in both April and May, after posting its lowest rate in nearly a decade in March. A slowdown in construction and production for national defense weakened Florida's labor market. Softening housing demand has adversely affected construction employment in much of the region and cut the demand for lumber used by building materials and furniture industries. Reorganization of the Tennessee Valley Authority and a scaling down of construction of power-generating facilities have trimmed that government agency's employment in the region. In Georgia. 500 jobs have been lost from the closing of denim-producing textile mills due to shifting consumer demands. Despite the softening of overall labor market indicators, some industries are quite strong and prospects for others are improving. Some segments of the textile industry, notably carpets, are performing well, and the paper industry is operating a 45-48 hour workweek, thanks to a high volume of orders and backlogs. Booming new-car sales have induced a lengthening of the workweek and spurred investment spending at plants supplying the automobile industry. Tire plants are currently on a seven-day workweek and one major manufacturer is purchasing new tire machines in a large modernization program. Moreover, employment at Nissan's plant in Tennessee is expected to expand by 1,000 over the next 12 months with the addition of a car assembly line to its truck assembly operation. By summer's end, 21 of Florida's 22 phosphate mines will be back in production and most workers will have been recalled. Improving oil demand and sharply lower drilling costs brighten prospects for increased activity in the energy sectors of Louisiana, Alabama, and Mississippi. Summer hiring of teenagers, spurred by the Job Partnership and Training Act and private sector initiatives, has been accompanied by a shortage of applicants for available jobs in the fast-food and hospitality industries. Consumer Spending According to a poll of merchants, May's retail sales were up over April and year-earlier levels. The region's sales outpaced comparable increases nationally as well. New-car sales in the District were booming in May, although the rate of increase trailed the nation because of the above-average growth of regional sales in 1983. Atlanta and wine other metropolitan areas continue to be very fast-growing markets. Reports of weakness are confined to rural areas where farmers remain under financial stress. Non-auto retailers report that seasonal items such as summer apparel, ceiling fans, lawn mowers and other outside tools, and garden furniture are top-selling items. Merchants are ordering fall and winter merchandise with the expectation that sales for the remainder of the year will be healthy. Construction Single-family building permits rose 2 percent in April after seasonal adjustment while the nation's permits dropped 3 percent. Alabama and Mississippi, both late to recover from recession, posted the highest growth rates within the District. However, reports from Birmingham indicate a recent sharp reduction in home sales and construction activity. At the same time, Jackson home builders report that a special state financing program for selected home buying is helping them maintain a steady pace of construction. Districtwide, reports from building materials suppliers who experienced heavy sales activity earlier this year now indicate a leveling off or decline in unit sales. Falling prices for lumber also foreshadow a housing construction slowdown. Nonresidential construction declined by one-fifth in April after rising by more than one-half from February to March. Alabama, Florida, and Louisiana construction slipped most, by 25-30 percent. Birmingham developers report declines in all nonresidential construction, and the completion of large commercial construction projects associated with the World's Fair has slowed activity in New Orleans. Continued rapid growth of nonresidential construction in Atlanta, Nashville, and Orlando mark this region's pockets of strength. Although the planning horizon of developers in these areas has shortened recently, most are going ahead with projects whose planned completion dates are well over a year away. Financial Services Unadjusted bank data for May show a decline in the growth of lending activity in the Southeast for the second consecutive month despite a recovery in bank deposit growth from the usual tax-related withdrawals of April. Business and real estate loan growth in May was noticeably weaker than in April while consumer lending increased slightly. Mortgage commitments at the region's savings and loan institutions declined in April. Overall, financial institutions in the Southeast report high levels of liquidity and reasonably good loan demand, but the growth of demand has not kept pace with the growth of deposits. Tourism New Orleans' World Fair drew an average of 35,000 visitors per day in its first month of operation, or 1.25 million, well below the 70,000 cited as the break-even attendance average. High prices, delayed construction, and adverse publicity concerning its financing problems have particularly limited attendance by visitors who live within a three-hour drive to the Fair. The low attendance prompted Fair officials to lower the price of season passes by one-third to lure more local and nearby visitors, but daily attendance is still below the break-even level. Neighboring states are benefiting from long-distance tourists on their way to the Fair. Most southeastern visitor centers are enjoying growth in the number of registrations. Air traffic and lodgings industry figures also indicate an increased amount of travel in the Southeast. Southeastern air traffic is up in almost all airports. Atlanta's airport reversed a three-month decline in passenger volume with a 2 percent increase in April. Agriculture With favorable weather, District crop farmers are likely to earn higher revenue in 1984 as a result of higher prices and increased plantings. However, dry, hot weather is now plaguing some of the region and, in the absence of a PIK program this year, losses could be heavier than in 1983 if drought continues. In the meat sector, an expected expansion of poultry production will lift total revenue in the poultry industry. For pork and beef producers, high feed costs and continuing low livestock prices have resulted in losses; planned production cutbacks that are proportionately larger than the expected price increases should shrink livestock revenue from a year ago.