Summary The District's economy continues to strengthen but the unemployment rate remains stubbornly high. Retail sales have been strong. Manufacturing activity continues to increase but many major steel producers are not yet generating profits. Coal demand is rising but remains at a low level. Residential construction and house sales are slowing. Business lending has not expanded recently but bankers expect strengthening soon. District Labor Market Conditions The labor market is displaying mixed trends and unemployment remains high. Employment and unemployment have risen in the last three months and the unemployment rate has risen from 9.3 percent in February to 10.2 percent (s.a.) in May. Although the unemployment rate has declined 3.2 percentage points from a year ago, in May it stood 2.7 percentage points above the national rate. Unemployment rates in eleven major metropolitan areas in this District in April ranged from 7.8 percent in Columbus to 12.0 percent in Youngstown. Manufacturing employment continues to rise but the average workweek in Ohio manufacturing in April, 42.5 hours (n.s.a.), was at the same level as in November 1983. Retail Sales Retail sales remained strong in May, with general merchandisers reporting year-over-year gains of 9 percent to 13 percent. Although these increases represented some moderation from earlier in the year, several retailers noted that they were above internal projections for the month. Moreover, the May gains were largely accomplished without an unusual number of promotions. One retailer however, suggested that some of the May strength may have been due to demand for seasonal goods that had been depressed by adverse weather during the March-April period. The inventory buildup that resulted from the March-April slowing in sales has been of little concern to District retailers because inventory-to-sales ratios remain at acceptable levels. District merchandisers expect retail sales gains to slow cyclically over the months ahead and are building inventories in line with those expectations. Most area auto dealers report virtually no easing in demand for domestic or foreign cars. They report that consumer lending rates haven't risen enough to have an effect on sales. Manufacturing Orders, employment, output and prices continue to rise. A survey of northeastern Ohio purchasing managers indicates production, employment and prices paid rose faster in May than in April and new orders accelerated in May after three months of slowing gains. Inventories of supplies and materials continue to grow and some managers report they are increasing stocks to hedge against price increases and slower deliveries. A survey of Cincinnati area purchasing managers indicates production and new orders are rising at a steady rate, employment growth is slowing, and order backlogs are falling slightly. Inventories of supplies and finished goods show little change. Vendor performance continues to worsen, and prices paid for commodities continue to rise but at a slower pace than earlier this year. A survey of financial officers of major midwestern manufacturing firms indicates new orders continue to increase at the same rate as in the first quarter while inventories are rising at an increasing pace. Primary Metals A major steel producer reports effective capacity has increased since early spring and customer inventory growth has slowed; therefore, the industry is no longer producing flat rolled steel at current effective capacity. Output of flat rolled steal is likely to be reduced in the third quarter because of further auto industry model changeovers and because steel service centers will be reversing their recent excessive inventory buildup. Demand for steel plate remains weak. Overall, the domestic industry has the ability to ship 95 million tons of steel per year but is expected to ship only 77 million tons in 1984 and 83 million tons in 1985. Prices are not rebounding as they usually do during an economic expansion. Prices charged by major steel producers remain weak because of competition from imports and domestic minimills. Major steel producers had losses in the first quarter and may break even in the second quarter but little profit is expected before 1985. A major aluminum producer reports that some softness in order rates has developed recently. Spot market prices for ingot aluminum continue to decline. Coal Demand for coal has increased recently because some users are building stockpiles in anticipation of a possible strike by the United Mine Workers, but the levels of demand and production remain low. Housing Residential construction activity is showing signs of slowing significantly from its rapid first quarter pace. Builders are experiencing a downward racheting in new orders, despite undiminished buyer traffic. Demand in the move-up market is becoming quite weak because of recent rises in mortgage interest rates. Realtors, who were very bullish at the beginning of the year, are experiencing a steady decline in listings, a moderate rise in the average length of time a house is on the market, and a significant increase in closing time. According to mortgage lenders, prospects for high and climbing interest rates portend a gloomy housing outlook. Borrowers increasingly are becoming wary about adjustable rate mortgage (ARM) instruments because of recent negative publicity. Lenders expect ARM demand to weaken moderately in the next two months, and doubt that ARMs can sustain the robust pace of housing much longer. Commercial Banking Loan demand appears to have weakened at Fourth District banks in recent weeks. Although the demand for consumer installment loans was robust, there was no further expansion in business lending. Nevertheless, bankers generally expect both consumer and business loan demand to be strong throughout the year. Deposits increased at a strong pace during the last month. It appears that District banks relied primarily on these funds to finance loans since their holdings of large certificates of deposits and borrowed funds did not increase during the last month.