Overview Some apparent slowing in economic activity is reported for the Tenth District, with only moderate growth expected for the rest of the year. While retail sales remain well above a year ago, gains have been mixed in recent months. Few significant inventory adjustments are expected in the months ahead, either for retail goods or materials inputs. With few exceptions, materials art readily available and lead times are stable. Price changes are expected to be minimal for the rest of the year, both at retail and for inputs. Housing starts are expected to be flat or down slightly through yearend, with demand down slightly due to higher interest rates. Loan demand at banks is slightly stronger than last month. A further rise in the prime rate is anticipated but consumer lending rates are expected to remain stable. Inadequate moisture last fall and too much rain this spring have contributed to mixed crop conditions, with row crop planting behind schedule. District bankers are concerned about the increase in farm bankruptcies. Purchasing Agents About half of the purchasing agents contacted report that input prices have increased 3 percent or less since June of last year. Most of the remainder report increases of 5 or 6 percent. Few agents have seen significant price increases during the last three months. Input prices are expected to increase 4 to 6 percent during the remainder of the year. Materials inventories are generally reported to be at satisfactory levels. Inventory adjustment has been minimal in recent weeks and no significant changes are expected for the remainder of the year. With few exceptions, materials are readily available, lead times are stable, and bottlenecks in labor and capacity are not apparent. Retail Trade Retailers report that year-to-date sales are up some 10 to 20 percent over a year ago but that sales gains have been mixed in the past three months. Men's and women's apparel have been selling particularly well. Inventory levels are slightly high relative to near-term sales expectations, but no significant trimming is planned for the near future. Clearance sales are expected to follow a normal pattern. Prices are reported to be generally flat and are expected to remain so for the rest of the year. Automobile Sales Automobile dealers throughout the Tenth District report moderately to strongly improved sales in 1984 relative to last year. Sales of imports and large domestic cars have been particularly strong. Several dealers are concerned about the recent rise in interest rates, but all the dealers contacted report satisfactory credit conditions. Financing is available for floorplanning and buyers can get loans. Dealers have tried to expand their inventories but have been frustrated by a lack of availability. The new import quotas effective since April have provided little relief for the tight import market. The outlook for both domestic and imports sales through 1984 and into 1985 is still very good. Housing Activity and Finance Homebuilders report that housing starts thus far in 1984 have exceeded year-ago levels, especially in the single- family category. Starts are expected to remain steady or fall somewhat for the rest of the year. Sales of new homes are below year-ago levels, and prices have increased or remained steady. Homebuilders report that materials are readily available at steady prices, except for increases for sheetrock and cement. Savings inflows at savings and loan associations are largely unchanged from last year and are expected to remain steady through 1984. Mortgage demand has fallen off in recent weeks because of rising interest rates. Steady or increasing interest rates are anticipated through 1984. Banking Loan demand at Tenth District banks has increased slightly over the past month, mostly due to increases in commercial and industrial loans and consumer loans. Some respondents note that the demand for auto loans is still quite strong. Residential and commercial real estate loan activity is quite variable, with the average level of loans unchanged. Agricultural loans decreased slightly. Total deposits have risen at the respondent banks. There was an increase in all types of deposits except for conventional NOW accounts, which remained at the previous month's level, and passbook savings accounts, which fell. The prime rate ranged between 12.5 percent and 14.0 percent, with over half of the banks charging 12.5 percent and over 80 percent charging 13 percent or less. Although none of the respondents reported a change in the prime rate in the last month, all report an increase of at least 0.5 percent in the beginning of May. Two-thirds of the respondents expect a further rise in the prime, with the rest expecting no change. Consumer lending rates have risen slightly, with 60 percent of the respondents reporting no change. None of the respondents expect consumer lending rates to change in the near term. Agriculture Crop conditions across the Tenth District are mixed. The winter wheat crop is rated from average to good. Some areas of the District received inadequate rainfall last fall, resulting in some wheat acreage being replanted this spring to barley or soybeans. Harvesting of wheat has begun in southern Oklahoma and will begin in the northern half of the state in about a week. Wheat harvesting is expected to begin in mid-July in the western part of the District. Planting of row crops is behind normal in most of the District because of heavy rainfall and some flooding. The corn crop is almost completely planted. More soybeans than usual have been planted due to a late spring and the plowing under of damaged wheat. District bankers express concern over the increasing number of farm bankruptcies that have occurred thus far this year and those anticipated next year.