Summary Business expansion continues in the Seventh District, but distinct signs in the past four to six weeks indicate that the pace of the rise in activity moderated significantly in the second quarter. Slowing was most marked in residential transactions, both on new and previously-owned structures, where higher interest rates have had their greatest impact. However, slower growth or declines also were noted in demand for steel, nonferrous metals, paper products, building materials, retail trade, and rail traffic. Motor vehicle sales, on the other hand, continue to be limited by availability of preferred models. Except for housing and a few specialized components and products, informed observers do not expect a general economic letdown. There are no signs of panic over a cutoff of Persian Gulf oil, upcoming UAW contract negotiations, or financial crises, domestic or international. A major factor in the slowing in the upswing is a moderating push to build inventories now that most "pipelines" have been refilled. Concern over accelerating inflation has abated, with widespread evidence of stiff competition. Demand for mechanical capital goods has increased, but only "selectively" and to levels generally below, often far below, "good" levels of the past. Employment increases continue but remain disappointing in the District, especially in nonmanufacturing. In the agricultural sector, District farmers caught up on plantings by mid-June, overcoming weather- caused delays earlier in the season. Chicago and Milwaukee Purchasing managers in the Chicago and Milwaukee areas reported slower growth in output and orders in April and May. However, order leadtimes continued to lengthen and the pace of the rise in employment remained strong. Both groups characterized their May reports as indicating continued growth for their areas, but at a slower pace. Housing Residential transactions have declined and a slump in new activity is believed to be underway, although not yet clearly indicated by available data. Quoted rates on conventional loans have increased, to as high as 15 percent. from 13 percent last spring, thereby pushing some potential buyers from the market. Also, lenders have tightened standards. A group of Chicago-area suburban builders reported new contracts down by half from March to May. There is little development work on new subdivisions in anticipation of a revival of demand. ARMs are being used extensively, exclusively by some lenders, but there is concern that some borrowers have been qualified on the basis of artificially low initial rates. Private mortgage insurers and some lenders have taken steps to stop this practice. Inflows of funds to S&Ls are holding up well, but a large share of these funds is being diverted into governments. S&Ls are making some consumer installment loans, but few have used their authority to enter the unfamiliar field of business loans. Building Costs Prices of most residential building materials have increased substantially since the uptrend in construction got underway late in 1982. Meanwhile, most building trades workers have agreed to wage freezes for the second straight year, both because unemployment remains substantial and because of inroads by nonunion contractors. Higher prices for such items as lumber, gypsum board, and building hardware brought forth additional supplies, thereby permitting some failback In prices. In the past month, there has been a dramatic change in the gypsum board market. Early in the spring local shortages of gypsum board were inducing shipments from domestic areas where supplies were less stringent and from abroad, Canada, Mexico, and Europe. Suddenly, shortages have disappeared and the industry is no longer operating at capacity. The main reason for the abrupt change is not a drop in consumption, which remains high, but an end to the inventory buildup by builders and distributors who had feared spreading shortages. From now on, usage of gypsum board in residential work is expected to peak out and decline, while commercial usage continues to rise. Retail Sales District observers question the accuracy of the small estimated 0.2 percent rise in total retail sales for May. Nonetheless, they report general merchandise sales somewhat below budget in recent months. Disappointment has centered on sales of soft goods, especially apparel. Although demand for home computers has sagged, rather than increased as expected, sales of traditional hard goods, most appliances, home improvement items, and recreational equipment, have been excellent. Hot weather in June brought a surge in air conditioner sales and some spot shortages. Overall, retail inventories are characterized as ranging from adequate to somewhat excessive. Prices paid remain in check, partly because of pressures exerted on suppliers by large chains with multiple sources for most items, domestic and foreign. Capital Equipment The mechanical capital goods picture has not changed substantially from evaluations offered in earlier "commentaries". Output of heavy trucks and trailers remains at capacity with backlogs extending into 1985. Heavy truck capacity, which had been reduced in the recession, is not being rebuilt. Orders for locomotives and freight cars have increased, and are expected to continue to increase, but remain far below prosperous levels. Demand for construction equipment and farm equipment is only slightly improved. Machine tool orders are up substantially, but with shipments still deeply depressed, cash flow to this industry remains perilously low. Other classes of capital goods with selective gains include oil and gas development, water transport, food processing, and materials handling. Equipment for mining coal, metallic ores, and agricultural minerals remains near recession lows. Except for paper, U.S. industry's capital outlays in 1964 are heavily concentrated in replacement and modernization rather than expansion. District capital goods producers continue to lament sharp declines in export markets, which are not reviving. Steel Leadtimes on steel orders have shortened, partly reflecting the maturing of inventory rebuilding programs in the auto, capital goods, and construction industries, and in steel service centers. Unlike last year, when the July dropoff in steel shipments was less than seasonal, most steel users this year will take their usual July plant-wide summer vacations. inventory positions then will be closely evaluated, a difficult process when operations are in full swing. Forecasts far steel consumption and shipments have not been altered and continue to call for substantial gains this year. Pressure for effective restrictions on steel imports, including those from LDC nations, are very strong. Despite anti-dumping rules, imports have hit new highs this year. Foreign steel is much less important in the District than nationally, but its availability helps keep prices at depressed levels. Motor Vehicles Aggregate data on car and truck output and sales suggest erratic performance this year, with a general leveling. Actually, marker vigor is undiminished. Sales data reflect shortages of fuel- and medium-sized cars, some sports models, heavy duty trucks, and some light trucks and vans. The motor vehicles picture has also confused by the end of the Japanese quota year on April 1, and some early U.S. car model changeovers. Crops Largely Planted After a slow start, crop plantings are being completed a few days sooner than last year and on schedule with historical norms. As of June 10, virtually all of the District's intended corn acreage and about 85 percent of its soybean acreage had been planted. Initial crop stands are mostly rated "good". Weather patterns in July and early August, however, will be the major determinant of ultimate harvests.