In the Twelfth District, the growth of the economy appears to be slowing. Consumer spending continues to display exceptional strength, with both department stores and automobile dealerships experiencing excellent business. Nonresidential construction activity also continues to pick up. But in May, the continued rise in mortgage interest rates further reduced both the construction and sale of new homes. Employment in the manufacturing sector generally has been growing at a slower rate due to the ripple effects of the housing slowdown on such industries as lumber, near full capacity operations in a few industries, and the efforts of firms to hold down unit labor costs. In agriculture, the outlook for significant improvement in farm income in 1984 has deteriorated due to the prospect of excess supplies, aggravated by a decline in exports. In April and May, Twelfth District banks experienced a large outflow of money market deposit accounts (MMDAs) as they held the line on MMDA rates. Consumer Spending Throughout the District, consumer spending is reported to be extremely strong. In fact, the rate of growth apparently accelerated in May in contrast to the national pattern. Major department stores in Southern California, for example, experienced an average 19 percent year-to-year gain in sales in May compared with a 14 percent gain in April. In Oregon, respondents describe retail sales as a bright spot in an otherwise sluggish recovery. Sales of apparel have been especially strong, but sales of such durable goods as home electronics (video-recorders, televisions) and housewares also are reported to be expanding at their earlier rapid rate. The high level of new home sales earlier this year is maintaining current sales of furniture and appliances at a strong pace, although some slowdown is expected soon due to the reduced homebuilding and sales pace. Auto sales in May reached their highest level since the late 1970s, supported by the increased availability of foreign and domestic models and subsidized financing by dealers. Consumer installment debt is growing as a percentage of income and retail sales, but loan delinquency rates nevertheless are declining. Manufacturing and Mining In most District states, the growth of manufacturing employment has slowed in recent months. In California, employment growth in the manufacturing sector during the past four months has trailed the national gain. There are several reasons for this slowdown. Some industries have been boosting output without a corresponding increase in employment so as to hold down unit labor costs. Others have been cautious about hiring new workers and have relied instead on increasing overtime. Still others, notably the Pacific Northwest aluminum and paper industries, are operating at near full capacity. But there also have been some recent layoffs in certain industries. The Pacific Northwest lumber industry has been cutting its payrolls due to the effects of the national homebuilding slowdown in reducing orders and prices for its products. The copper, steel and coal industries in the Intermountain states have been laying off workers due to excess worldwide supplies and rising imports. The most rapid employment gains continue to occur in the electronic equipment and missiles and space industries located In California, Oregon, Arizona and Utah. Electronic firms continue to benefit not only from rising defense and consumer demand but business capital spending to increase efficiency. Other capital goods industries adding to their payrolls include nonelectrical machinery, trucks and firms manufacturing military and commercial transport aircraft. Construction and Real Estate Housing starts and sales of new homes in the West are reported to have slowed further since April but relatively moderately considering the current high level of mortgage rates. Respondents attribute the moderate nature of the slowdown to the increased public acceptance of adjustable rate mortgages and the increased offerings of "buy-down" programs by builders. Sales of existing (older) homes actually have continued to increase due to the rise in seller financing schemes. Bankers believe mortgage rates have reached a threshold, however, where even a further 50 basis point rise would have a dramatic negative impact on housing markets. The rise in interest rates has not affected the sharp increase in nonresidential construction projects planned and underway in the West, including new shopping malls, hotels, offices, buildings and warehouses. In Southern California, an influx of foreign money from Pacific Rim sources is an important source of financing. Firms continue to be cautious about investing in new industrial structures, except for electronic equipment manufacturers. Agriculture The outlook for significant improvement in California net farm income in 1984 has become less favorable due to the prospect of overly abundant harvests and break-even prices for certain key crops. Cotton plantings are progressing well, and prices also look favorable relative to a year ago. But the harvest of wheat, barley, alfalfa and other small grains is in full swing at prices that at best just about match those of a year earlier. The harvest of vegetable crops has been outstanding. But demand has lagged behind production, reducing prices for such items as lettuce, broccoli and celery to or below the break-even point for most growers. Similarly, the huge carryover of raisins and potential excess supply of wine grapes threaten to hold down grape prices. In the Pacific Northwest the outlook for farm income is less favorable than in California due to the greater importance of grains in the crop mix. In the Pacific Northwest, exports of grain are reported to be running 30 percent below the level of a year ago despite increased sales to China. Throughout the Twelfth District, rising interest rates are placing extreme financial pressure on those farmers who already are highly leveraged. Financial Institutions Twelfth District banks experienced a significant runoff in money market deposit accounts (MMDAs) during April and May (nearly $1.3 billion), when market interest rates were moving upward. While not all institutions suffered outflow, the large it magnitude of the recent weakness was due to a number of factors. First, loan demand at many banks remains moderate to weak, although total loan growth at large banks has picked up in the second quarter. This slack loan demand has left many banks with an abundance of funds. Without the demand-side pressure, many banks are holding the line on MMDA rate increases to minimize costs and maintain net interest margins. Thus, these conditions have opened a significant rate differential between banks and a money market funds, which is causing some of the runoff. A second factor is banks' decision to direct funds from MMDAs and into longer-term certificates by offering higher rates on longer certificates. In addition, a few smaller institutions also have reported that the turmoil in the financial markets has caused depositors to move funds into U.S. Treasury securities. Finally, these factors coincide with the typical seasonal weakness in consumer deposits around the April tax date, as depositors withdraw MMDAs to make their tax payments and transfer funds into IRA/Keogh accounts.