Overview According to Sixth District contacts, economic conditions have improved somewhat since January. Retailers generally report modest sales increases, especially for nondurables. Auto dealers reported increased showroom traffic but relatively small gains in car sales. Most manufacturers reported steady or higher new orders and production. Bankers saw a firming in demand for business loans and continued improvement in loan portfolio quality. Home sales increased again, although some realtors noted that the recent rise in mortgage rates has dampened activity. Single-family home building gathered momentum, and if sales remain at higher levels, contractors and suppliers expect further acceleration during the spring. Aside from rising lumber prices, input and output prices have remained steady under very competitive conditions. Consumer Spending Over half the retail contacts reported higher sales from weak year-ago levels; the remainder reporting flat consumer spending. Gains were still concentrated in nondurable items such as apparel. However, sales of some types of durables began to show signs of life in February. Several contacts reported significantly improved furniture sales, the first positive news for that product line in several months. Auto dealers said that while showroom traffic increased, sales gains were only modest. Most retail contacts remain cautiously optimistic, expecting a pickup in sales during the second half of the year. This caution is reflected in lean inventories and conservative placement of new orders. Contacts in the region's tourism and convention industries expect increased activity. Convention bureaus in New Orleans, Orlando, and Atlanta report that advance bookings continue to exceed year-ago levels. Manufacturing Most factory contacts reported steady or higher levels of new orders and production from early in the year. Nearly three-quarters of the contacts expect business activity to strengthen over the next six months. Brisk sportswear demand has stimulated production for some apparel producers. Producers of construction-related materials are expanding employment in response to improved orders. An industrial equipment producer noted recent improvement in business activity and a coincident upturn in production. However, carpet mill contacts characterize current demand as flat, although improvement originating from new home construction is expected. Several consumer durable producers remain concerned about conservative consumer spending. Generally, profit margins remain thin because of keen competition. Consumer electronics producers noted that continued declines in finished goods prices are encouraging increased levels of offshore production. Financial Services Loan demand in the region was mixed through February. Mortgage refinancing continues at a record pace, but the flood of applicants is abating. Other types of consumer lending remain sluggish. Bankers report that business loan demand is flat or slightly higher in recent weeks but is still generally below year-ago levels. Most banking contacts report improvement in loan portfolio quality. However, the size of existing loan portfolios in most banks contacted continued to contract in early 1992. Construction Most realtors report increasing home sales in January and February, and newspapers are selling more real estate ad lineage. However, several realtors noted some slowing in purchases coincident with the recent rise in mortgage rates. Home sales remain strongest in the lower price range, but some contacts are now seeing improved sales in the trade-up market. Although home inventories are being absorbed, realtors suggest that an adequate supply is on the market, especially of luxury homes. According to contractors, single-family home building accelerated more than seasonally through February. Builders are relatively optimistic but fear an increase in mortgage rates. Multifamily activity remains moribund. Commercial construction remained dormant. However, several commercial realtors reported that the office leasing market is in the early stages of recovery, aided by the reduced new supply of office space coming to the market. Wages and Prices Retail and factory contacts report that input and output prices have remained relatively constant under intense competitive pressure. However, manufacturers expect higher input prices in the second half of the year. Home builders have seen lumber prices jump and some expect price increases in other construction materials during the spring as more activity pushes product demand higher. Ample natural gas inventories have been swollen by the mild winter, forcing prices lower and initiating cutbacks in domestic exploration and production. No general acceleration of wage pressures has been reported.