Overview Most sectors of the District's economy improved modestly in late January and in February, in contrast to the sluggish conditions reported in mid-January. Retailers noted a rise in sales and in spending by tourists, and factory activity apparently increased modestly. Most retailers and manufacturers were optimistic that business conditions would improve further in coming months. Realtors reported a rise in home sales which they attributed to a combination of lower interest rates and improved consumer confidence. In the financial sector, lending and interest rates were steady. District port activity rose, mainly because of higher imports, and farm crop prospects were good. Consumer Spending Our regular mail survey indicated that District retail activity improved in late January and in February after having been unchanged in December and early January. Survey respondents reported increases in most indicators of retail activity, although sales of big ticket items were flat and retail employment apparently declined. Most retailers reported that factors other than this year's low interest rate environment had helped profit margins and sales; one in three, though, believed that the decline in rates had helped business. Retailers continued to be optimistic about their prospects over the next six months. They expected activity, particularly sales and shopper traffic, to increase. Manufacturing Manufacturers indicated that District factory activity improved somewhat in past weeks, in contrast to the decline reported in the previous survey period. Respondents reported increases in shipments, new orders and exports. They noted little change in most other indicators, and inventories apparently declined somewhat. Manufacturers indicated that, besides poor sales, excess capacity was their most important current problem. About two-thirds of the respondents said that lower interest rates had not boosted their profits or sales significantly so far in 1992. Manufacturers gave optimistic forecasts for the coming months. They expected all indicators of production and sales to improve, and thought that their inventories would be stable. Ports Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that exports were unchanged and imports were higher compared with early January and with a year ago. They expected export activity to increase somewhat over the next six months and import activity to be flat. Tourism Hotels, motels and resorts throughout the District reported by telephone that tourist activity in February remained unchanged compared to early January and to a year ago. Most respondents reported that bookings were about even with a year ago. Tourism was helped by a good ski season and strong convention bookings. Over half of the respondents expected activity to strengthen throughout the remainder of the winter and into the spring. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that credit conditions were mostly unchanged over the last eight weeks. On balance banks reported the demand for consumer and commercial loans was stable. Respondents stated that interest rates on commercial loans at their institutions were steady, but rates on consumer loans were lower. Respondents said that demand for home mortgage refinancing trailed off over the last eight weeks as mortgage interest rates rose. They noted, however, that the home mortgage sector continues to be the strongest single source of loan activity. Real Estate A telephone survey of real estate analysts and mortgage bankers indicated increased activity in the residential market since mid- January. Home sales and customer traffic increased and many respondents suggested that these increases were due to lower mortgage rates coupled with higher consumer confidence. Home prices remained mostly steady, although some respondents suggested that prices for upscale homes weakened in their areas. Commercial real estate activity remained flat in most of the District, although increased leasing activity was reported in the Carolinas. Agriculture Agricultural analysts across the District reported that farm conditions remained strong in January and early February. Mild winter temperatures and abundant precipitation had left small grain crops in generally good condition. Winter planting preparation was on schedule, and the seeding of tobacco and the planting of potatoes was underway. In the livestock sector, feed and hay supplies were expected to be adequate for the remainder of winter and through the spring.