Summary Economic conditions in the Twelfth District range from persistent weakness in California to moderate growth in intermountain regions. Sales of homes and autos are responding positively to recent interest rate reductions. Continued employment declines, however, are reported in the defense-related manufacturing, banking, legal, and government sectors. Wage and price increases are modest, with the exception of health care. Mortgage refinancing activity appears to have peaked, and overall loan demand remains weak. Recent rains have improved agricultural prospects. Business Sentiment Economic expectations of Twelfth District business leaders improved modestly since our last report. Only 12 percent of respondents now expect output to decline in at least two of the next four quarters, compared to 32 percent in January and 25 percent in November. Most respondents (70 percent) expect the economy to expand, but at a rate below 2.5 percent. The proportion of business leaders expecting improved business investment, consumer spending, and housing starts continues to increase. Expectations regarding housing starts were particularly optimistic. with 79 percent of the respondents projecting some improvement in the next four quarters, up from 40 percent in November. Ninety-one percent expect inflation to decline or remain stable. Wages and Prices Upward pressures on wages and prices remain minimal throughout most of the Twelfth District. Most wage increases in the Twelfth District are reported in the 3 to 4 percent range. Smaller increases are projected for state workers. Employee benefits, however, continue to rise due to health costs, which continue to increase at double-digit rates. Lumber prices are rising, due to decreased supply and rising demand. Outside of these sectors, inflationary pressures are hard to find. Contacts in retail establishments report continued discounting and flat wholesale prices. Materials prices are reported down for several industries, with paint materials prices down 2 to 3 percent, and discounting of newsprint expected to continue. Retail Trade and Services Retail sales remain soft in most of the Twelfth District. A major retailer reports inventories are at their planned levels, and that no shortages exist. Another retailer reports they continue to reduce staff size, and that all retailers are emphasizing cost control. One bright spot is auto sales, however, with dealers in several markets reporting increased activity since January. Professional firms in Washington expect flat to modest growth, with some increased competition in the legal field reported. Print media contacts in California report that circulation and advertising volume remain below their year-earlier levels. Classified ads in employment, real estate, and autos are down. Conditions in California public education remain uncertain, with hiring plans being delayed due to possible budget cutbacks. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the Twelfth District remains sluggish, with layoffs continuing in aerospace, electronics, and defense- related industries. Orders for helicopters and transport aircraft have fallen in Oregon. Boeing's Washington payroll has dropped about 2,700 since its 1989 peak, with 600 lost since October, mostly in defense and without direct layoffs. Another 6,500 reduction has been announced for 1992 with a layoff of 2,400 by May. Boeing projects its long-term prospects as strong, however, forecasting a 5.2 percent annual increase in passenger traffic through 2010. Their expansion plans appear firm. The overall outlook for business investment has improved, but contacts report little immediate impact of interest rate reductions on capital spending. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries The agricultural outlook in the Twelfth District has improved somewhat due to recent rains. Farmers in California are now hoping for increased allocations of water, though the lingering effects of the drought will limit deliveries and keep pumping costs higher. Timber sales for this fiscal year are severely restricted. Ponderosa pine and Douglas fir lumber prices are up dramatically due to scarce supply, with prices in many grades at historic levels. Spot natural gas prices are down 6 percent from last year's already low levels. Construction and Real Estate Residential real estate markets show signs of improvement. Sales activity has increased in several District markets, and housing starts are up in Idaho, Utah, and eastern Washington. Renewed investor interest in housing developments is reported, though financing remains tight. Conditions in the nonresidential construction industry, however, continue to weaken in several states, with a contact in Oregon expecting weak conditions for 1 to 2 years. Median sales prices for single-family homes are stable or increasing slightly in most District markets, and the drop in prices of the upper-end residential market in California appears to have slowed. Some decline, however, is reported in commercial building sales prices. Financial Institutions Twelfth District financial institutions report continued but moderating interest in home mortgage refinancings, but otherwise flat demand for loans. Commercial and construction loans continue to decline, and consumer loan categories are weak with the exception of home equity credit lines. Some deposit outflow is reported, as interest rate reductions are inducing investors to seek higher returns. Banks in California appear to remain cautious in making loans, and contacts outside the financial industries report problems in finding credit for real estate development and small business. Small business loan demand is strong and usage of Small Business Administration guarantees is reported up both locally and nationwide.