Summary The Seventh District has experienced a slow but increasingly widespread advance in economic activity since the end of January. Recent indicators of regional economic activity generally signaled expansion in February. Most manufacturers reported flat to modest improvement in activity and expect production to improve in the months ahead. Auto dealers' orders over die last month have been better than the industry expected, but auto suppliers have seen only limited improvements in their orders. Several retailers have also indicated "surprisingly strong" sales in February, even though part of the improvement over year-ago levels still reflects weak sales last year. Housing activity in the District picked up markedly in February, aided in part by unseasonably warm weather. Business lending activity has changed little in recent months, but an increase in loan demand was noted in selected markets. Regional Indicators Indicators of District economic activity for the month of February were generally positive. Purchasing managers' surveys for Chicago and Milwaukee showed solid gains in orders and production, although their employment indexes remained relatively weak. The Detroit index switched from signaling widespread contraction to modest expansion in both non-auto and auto-related businesses, led again by increases in production, orders, and, for nonauto-related businesses-vender performance. Purchasing managers' reports taken over the second half of January for Western Michigan, which is more dependent on office furniture and appliances than autos, indicated some slowing in the overall rate of decline in that area's activity, although several survey participants stated that business was picking up or was expected to pick up by the end of the first quarter. Help-wanted advertising in the Midwest region declined slightly in January, although in recent months it has been holding up somewhat better than in other regions. A survey of hiring activity in the region expects hiring to be down this quarter, but to rebound in the second quarter. Manufacturing Reports on manufacturing activity in the District have turned increasingly positive since the last report, although some producers were still reporting that activity has remained depressed since the end of last year. Several auto producers report a marked improvement in dealer orders for light vehicles, especially minivans, since the end of January, and one producer has begun to revise production schedules upward. Car orders remain weak relative to light truck orders, but car production this quarter is still expected to be slightly higher than in the fourth quarter on a seasonally adjusted basis. With sales rates running above production rates, several sources expect that dealers will have to increase car orders soon. While several auto suppliers are anticipating an increase in auto production, improvements in their auto-related activity has not yet appeared. One supplier noted that delivery schedules to auto producers have stabilized in recent weeks, suggesting that auto production plans are firming. A supplier of transmissions stated that sales were down in January, although spot improvements were noted, particularly in 5-speed transmissions. A steel producer reported that first quarter bookings show a seasonally adjusted improvement over the fourth quarter. However, gains were not attributed to autos, but rather to an increase in orders from steel service centers, which generally derive their demand from small industrial customers. Consumer Spending Several District retailers reported solid year-over-year gains in same-store sales during January and February, even when considering the weakness in sales a year ago. A large discount chain reported improved sales, particularly in home products, despite intense competitive pressure on prices. Nondurable-goods producers are offering attractive bulk deals to large retailers, apparently to reduce inventory, and retailers are running special promotions to take advantage of the deals. A major department store chain, which recorded double-digit sales growth in January, continued to post equivalent year-over-year gains in February, led by furniture and appliance sales. A survey of retailers in the Northern Illinois and Indiana area suggests that recent sales gains are concentrated among department stores, while sales at specialty stores continue to be weak. However, one retailer noted that department stores suffered greater weakness a year ago than the specialty stores, which may account for the current difference in performance. Several auto dealers were upbeat about February auto sales. Traffic has been improving since the end of last year, according to several contacts. One Michigan dealer recorded the best February in the franchises' ten-year history. According to another dealer, "nearly new" program cars are still an important source of dealership sales, but reduced availability of program cars over the next few months should shift the mix of sales toward new cars. Housing Activity Gains in housing starts for the Midwest in January were followed by a surge in new home sales in February. A larger realty firm noted that existing home sales in the Chicago area began to strengthen in January, and sales for the firm continue to run about 25-30 percent above "normal" levels for this time of year. Gains are attributed to lower interest rates, a mild winter, and stable house prices. Home builders are reporting an upward trend in sales, and one developer has started planning two new projects in the Chicago area. A supplier of building materials sees an unmistakable uptick in sales, with sales to professional home builders in the Chicago area up 40 percent from a weak year-ago period. Banking Business loan activity in the District has changed little since the end of last year, but several large banks in the District cited signs of improvement in loan demand from middle-market businesses. With credit standards unchanged, several banks cited weak loan demand, rather than credit availability, as the reason for the lack of improvement in lending. However, a bank economist reported a few cases of customers seeking financing to activate capital spending programs that had been postponed in the fourth quarter. One bank reported some increase in loans to small businesses for the purpose of financing inventory. Mortgage demand was moderately stronger at some large banks, but unchanged at others. An auto dealer noted that effective interest rates on new auto loans declined in recent months, as local banks have become more aggressive in their lending than at the end of last year. However, several large banks reported little change in demand for consumer installment loans.