Summary Most sectors in the Eighth District are reporting growth. Increasing demand for goods and services and outside firms relocating to the District are stimulating economic activity. Construction activity has picked up in recent weeks. Business and consumer loan demand are showing signs of increasing. Transportation companies report a pick- up in demand. Manufacturing Since our last report, both employment increases and plans for employment increases have multiplied. For example, a major tire manufacturer in Memphis recalled 100 workers because of rising sales and greater-than-expected demand. A major household appliance producer in southwest Indiana will increase employment by 200 after a previous increase of 900 employees. An electrical equipment company announced the consolidation of its North Carolina plant at its Tennessee plant, which will add 150 workers over the coming year. A barge builder in southeast Indiana recalled 200 workers. Both an aerospace company and a plastics company chose northeast Mississippi for their new plants. The aerospace plant, which will produce engines for the space shuttle program, will open in 1994 with 1,000 workers; the plastics firm will begin hiring this spring. An Arkansas electric motors company is expanding its facilities because of increases in demand and technological advances. Also in Arkansas, a jet engine producer is building a new plant, and a steel company is building a new mill. A California piping company will close its four plants and move to Little Rock, bringing 400 to 500 jobs. Another California transplant, a medical equipment maker, will arrive in St. Louis by April, bringing 400 jobs. Companies in some sectors, especially defense-related firms, continue to lay off workers. An ammunition equipment maker released 130 employees at two St. Louis plants. In addition, a plastics molding firm laid off 100 when restructuring plans closed the Louisville plant. A major St. Louis defense contractor laid off an additional 420 workers in January and February: however, the firm also announced that it will hire 500 engineers by year's end because of new contracts. Nonmanufacturing Positive news from nonmanufacturing firms also dominated the negative news. Strong sales spurred a national discount retailer to recall employees laid off after Christmas. Patronage at St. Louis restaurants was reportedly up in January and February over the previous months. Health services continue to grow with 500 new positions added in St. Louis over the past month. In addition, a recent temporary employment agency's report revealed that 25 percent of the surveyed St. Louis firms plan to increase their employment during the second quarter of 1992, with most new jobs anticipated in the public sector and service-related industries. Construction and Real Estate Residential construction activity is up substantially from its year- ago level. Although much of the increase can be attributed to the low levels of activity during with the Gulf War, contacts say favorable interest rates and potential tax incentives are spurring both new construction and sales. A first-quarter 1992 survey of small construction firms indicated that almost half believed business conditions would improve during the next six months. Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at large District banks declined slightly over the past few months. The downturn was concentrated in real estate, where loans declined almost 1 percent in January and February, compared with 2.3 percent growth during the prior two months. Commercial and industrial loans outstanding continue to grow, rising 1.2 percent so far in 1992. Consumer loans were flat over the two-month period, compared with a 0.5 percent decline during the prior two months. Agriculture and Natural Resources Delta catfish producers report increased production and higher prices because of the Lenten season. Mississippi cotton producers intend to increase planted acreage this spring, while Arkansas, Missouri and Tennessee cotton producers plan slight decreases. Arkansas oil and natural gas producers report low prices, but lumber producers report relatively high prices. District coal production is off about 6 percent from a year earlier. Transportation Because of financial and legal difficulties, an Arkansas trucking firm recently closed, releasing 400 employees. Meanwhile, two major Louisville freight and parcel carriers announced plans to expand their facilities because of increased demand. Barge movement of nonfarm commodities in the St. Louis area has increased recently; for example, a significant amount of cement is reported to be moving from a Missouri cement maker into the Chicago area. Barge tonnage through Little Rock is up substantially from last year. Passenger movements through the St. Louis and Little Rock airports have increased recently, while freight operations are up modestly in Memphis.