Overview The Tenth District economy continues to grow slowly, despite some weakening in the farm and energy sectors. Housing starts are still increasing, new car sales are picking up, and retail sales continue to improve. Retailers are satisfied with their inventory levels, but manufacturers continue to trim inventories of materials and other inputs. Prices for retail goods and manufacturers' inputs generally remain steady. Retail Sales Retail sales improved slightly over the last month, with demand for housewares especially strong. Most retailers expect sales to climb steadily over the rest of the year. Prices are expected to remain steady, or perhaps inch up, over the next few months. Most retailers are satisfied with current inventory levels and expect little change in the coming months. Auto sales in most district states were up slightly over the past month. Most dealers expect further increases in sales during the next few months, although some potential buyers are facing difficulty obtaining loans. With a brighter outlook for auto sales, most dealers are expanding inventories slightly. Manufacturing Purchasing agents generally reported only small price increases for their inputs over the past year, and virtually no increases over the past month. Prices are expected to remain stable during coming months. Materials are readily available and agents expect no problems in acquiring materials for the remainder of the year. Most firms expect to keep trim inventories until they see signs of economic improvement. Export sales have risen and further gains are expected. Energy Slumping oil and natural gas prices have dampened already weak energy activity in the district. The average number of operating drilling rigs in district states slipped from 200 in January to 198 in February. While the monthly decline was modest, the February rig count was nearly 25 percent below its year-ago level. Housing Activity and Finance Housing starts across the district are much higher than a year ago, continuing the improvement observed last month. Builders expect further increases in the rest of the first quarter and in the year as a whole. New homes sales are up from a year ago, and inventories are dropping. While the price of lumber has risen sharply, the prices of other building materials have risen only slightly. There is little difficulty in obtaining materials, but builders in some areas anticipate shortages of lumber. Most district savings and loan respondents reported net deposit outflows last month. Mortgage demand is very strong, largely due to refinancing. Demand is expected to remain strong, even though mortgage rates have risen recently. Respondents expect little change in rates in the near term and over the rest of the year. Banking Loan-deposit ratios at most reporting banks were lower or the same as last month, as bankers reported generally constant loan demand. Nearly all bankers reported greater demand for home mortgages, and greater or constant demand for consumer loans and agricultural loans. Demand for construction loans and commercial and industrial loans was constant or down at most banks, while commercial real estate loan demand was mostly down. Deposit behavior across reporting banks was mixed. NOW, super-NOW, and money market deposit accounts were mostly up, while demand deposits were mostly down. Large CDs at nearly all banks were down. Most reporting banks lowered consumer lending rates during the last month, and a few bankers expect further declines in the near term. Prime rates, however, were unchanged at nearly all reporting banks, with no change expected. Lending standards at all reporting banks were unchanged from last month. Bankers generally said the recent lowering of reserve requirements on transaction deposits would have little or no effect on their financial condition or on their lending. Agriculture Credit reviews at district agricultural banks reflect the recent downturn in district farm incomes. Farm lenders note a slight rise in the number of problem loans and a slight drop in repayment rates. Last year's plunge in livestock prices hurt livestock producers, and drought in some parts of the district hurt crop producers. Financial reserves built up in recent years cushioned the recent drop in livestock profits, however. And higher grain prices brighten prospects for district grain producers in the year ahead. Recent rainfall has eased the drought that threatened the district's winter wheat crop, although the crop remains vulnerable to a sudden cold snap. With average temperatures and timely rainfall during the remainder of the growing season, normal to above normal yields are attainable in most of the district. Despite the sluggishness in the national economy, mainstreet businesses in the district's rural communities have performed well in recent years. The recent drop in farm income, however, has dampened business activity in many rural communities and trimmed profits for some rural businesses.