Summary The level of Eighth District economic activity has declined in recent weeks. Retail sales, in real terms, are down. The manufacturing and construction sectors continue to weaken, although manufactured exports are increasing. Minor credit tightening has occurred at the District's largest banks. The agricultural sector shows continued strength. Consumer Spending Most retailers report that the nominal value of sales is near, or slightly below that of a year ago. Thus, real retail sales have declined. Sales of appliances, furniture and other big-ticket items are particularly weak. Relatively mild weather has slowed the sales of winter apparel, while uncertainty about national economic conditions and the Persian Gulf situation have made consumers both cautious and price-conscious. Retail inventories generally are at planned levels. Most contacts expect the nominal value of holiday sales to be near or slightly below that of 1989, though several respondents, including those representing discount stores in St. Louis and Memphis, expect substantial growth. Contacts report weakening vehicle sales, especially for cars that are domestically produced or are not fuel-efficient. Small trucks are reportedly selling fairly well. Vehicle inventories are generally at desired levels. The outlook is for continued weakness. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity continues to weaken, with both durables and nondurables sectors affected. Several auto assembly plants had temporary layoffs in November and some of their suppliers, such as producers of tires and accessories, also report production cutbacks. While most textile and apparel producers in the District are experiencing flat or declining orders, three factories filling Operation Desert Shield-related orders for uniforms, hats and boots and one plant producing medical uniforms are substantially expanding their operations. Construction and Real Estate Both residential and nonresidential construction continue to weaken. Permits for single-family homes in St. Louis are down by one-third from their year-ago level, while multifamily permits are down almost 75 percent. Existing home sales have also weakened in St. Louis, Little Rock and Memphis. Realtors in these cities report that economic conditions and the Persian Gulf are the primary negative factors affecting the housing market. One Louisville realtor, however, reports that home sales are up substantially from their year-ago pace; this realtor expects a record dollar volume in 1990. Banking and Credit Loan officers report that some minor credit tightening has occurred recently at the District's five largest banks. For commercial and industrial (C&I) loans that banks were willing to approve, the costs of credit lines and the spreads of loan rates over base rates had increased somewhat, according to respondents, while the maximum size of credit lines and collateralization requirements were basically unchanged. Except for residential mortgage loans, real estate loan terms have tightened during the past three months. Credit standards for construction and land development loans and loans to finance commercial office buildings have tightened somewhat more than those for nonfarm nonresidential real estate loans. Respondents indicated that, apart from normal seasonal changes, demand for residential mortgages had remained the same or weakened somewhat compared with the first half of the year. The banks' willingness to make consumer loans, however, had not changed. Agriculture and Natural Resources The harvest of the Districts crops is nearing completion. When the harvest is over, District production of soybeans will be up slightly, while cotton and tobacco production will be up substantially over 1989. Corn production will be down. Dry soil conditions led to poor pasture conditions and a short supply of hay in parts of Mississippi. Returns to cow/calf operators remain relatively strong. Southern pine lumber mill activity is running ahead of last year. District states' recent coal production has been higher than a year ago. Exports District exports of manufactured goods have increased in recent months, while agricultural export growth appears mixed. Much of the export growth of manufactured goods is among producers of auto parts, chemicals, industrial machinery and printing and packaging machinery. Exports to Mexico are growing as import restrictions have eased. Government offices assisting exporting firms report a recent upswing in the demand for their services. Exports of rice are up slightly from a year ago, due in part to large sales to Mexico and Brazil, whose rice crops were damaged by severe droughts. Several contacts believed the lower exchange value of the dollar has helped boost exports in recent months, but were unsure how important this factor was. Corn, wheat and soybean exports are reported as lower than a year ago.