Summary Business activity in the Eighth District continued to improve since our last report. Despite growth in many areas, however, some contacts in manufacturing and services reported plant closings and layoffs. Retail and auto sales increased in June over year-earlier levels. Residential real estate markets continued to do well in the District, and commercial markets appear to be stabilizing. Total loans at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks increased between mid-March and June. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Manufacturing activity in the District increased in many industries. Firms in the garden tools, plastics manufacturing, packaging, and automotive parts industries reported plant expansions, openings, and employment increases. A contact in the aerospace industry reported plans to train displaced automotive industry workers to manufacture aerospace parts. Despite the improvement in some areas, there have been reports of plant closings, company reorganizations, and layoffs. Affected industries include printing, electronics, automotive tire, home appliance, and industrial parts. A District automotive manufacturer will idle some of its plants this summer in an effort to reduce inventories of sport-utility vehicles. Several District coal producers reported shipment delays due to congested and overloaded freight rail lines. Contacts in the construction industry reported cement shortages and increasing prices. Contacts attribute the shortage of cement to the rise in steel demand abroad, arguing that many of the ocean vessels that would be used to import cement are tied up shipping steel. In the services sector, firms in the tourism industry have reported facility openings and increases in hiring, while firms in the health services, correctional, and telecommunication industries reported workforce reductions. Business activity in the retail services sector was strong. Contacts reporting store openings included boutique grocery, furniture, outdoor equipment, clothing, electronics, office supply, and building materials retailers. Discount retailers reported sales growth in June compared with May. Retailers also noted stronger sales growth in June compared with the same month a year ago. Most District auto dealers reported increased sales in June compared with May. In addition, contacts reported higher sales in June compared with year-earlier levels. Real Estate and Construction The housing market continues to do well in the Eighth District. May year-to-date home sales in the Memphis area were up 13 percent compared with the same period in 2003, and in the greater St. Louis area the growth was 5.8 percent. Residential construction is still strong in most of the District's metropolitan areas. Year-to-date permits increased throughout the District in May 2004 compared with May 2003. There was a 10 percent growth in year-to-date permits in the St. Louis County area. Construction has picked up in northeast Arkansas, where builders are optimistic about the second half of the year, and has remained steady in rural west Tennessee. The District's commercial real estate market may be stabilizing. Office vacancy rates for downtown St. Louis increased only slightly to 22.8 percent in the first quarter of 2004 from 22.5 percent in the last quarter of 2003. The downtown Louisville vacancy rate fell to 20.4 percent from 21.0 percent, while in downtown Memphis the rate increased slightly from 23.4 percent to 24.5 percent. The industrial vacancy rate for the Louisville metropolitan area increased to 18.3 percent in the first quarter of 2004 from 16.7 percent in the last quarter of 2003. Commercial construction has shown some improvement in most of the Eighth District. Overall commercial construction in the St. Louis area increased by more than 6 percent during the first 5 months of 2004 compared with the same period in 2003. Contacts reported that construction in north central Arkansas was up significantly compared with the previous year and that the market continued to improve in Memphis and rural west Tennessee. Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks were up 4.2 percent from mid-March to late June. This increase stems from a 3.0 percent rise in commercial and industrial loans along with a 4.8 percent increase in real estate loans. Loans to individuals and loans to commercial banks showed declines of 3.1 percent and 22.9 percent, respectively. During the same period, total deposits at these banks decreased 4.6 percent. Agriculture and Natural Resources While the rains have subsided for some District states, others are still plagued by wet weather and flooding damage in certain areas. Most ratings of soil moisture levels continue to be adequate or surplus. In every District state, at least 50 percent of each crop, including over 75 percent of the corn crop, has been rated in good or excellent condition. Livestock and pastures are mostly in good condition. Every District state has completed more than 90 percent of its winter wheat harvest. The growth of corn, soybeans, and sorghum is ahead of normal in the District, while cotton growth is keeping pace with its five-year average.