Summary Reports from contacts indicate that the District economy continued to expand at a solid pace from early June through mid-July, although growth appeared to have slowed slightly compared with the previous survey period. Compensation and final prices rose modestly in general; however, there were scattered reports of increased wage pressures for selected types of workers. Consumer demand for retail items moderated compared to the previous survey period, while demand for most services remained strong. Manufacturing output continued to expand, but the pace slowed compared with earlier this year. Sales were brisk for most agricultural products. Demand for residential real estate remained robust, and demand for commercial real estate was stable or up a bit. District banks reported solid demand for all loan categories and good credit quality. Prices and Wages District contacts reported modest price inflation during the survey period. Fuel and energy prices fell back somewhat, but rising prices for steel, cement, and some raw materials boosted production costs in some industries. Some contacts noted increased pricing power relative to earlier in the year, but in general vigorous competition still limited firms' ability to pass cost increases on to final prices. Wage and salary pressures were modest overall. However, shortages of qualified job applicants and increased outside competition for existing employees generated notable wage and salary increases for skilled occupations in a number of industries, including construction, manufacturing, financial services, and technology services. Contacts noted that where wages have been rising, productivity gains generally have been adequate to hold constant or reduce labor costs per unit of output. There were a few exceptions, notably for some firms in the banking, health-care, and construction industries, where productivity growth did not keep pace with wage gains and rising labor costs were absorbed into profit margins or passed on to final prices. Some contacts noted recent or anticipated slowing in the pace of productivity gains in their industries. Respondents in all sectors reported that rising health insurance costs made a significant contribution to increases in overall compensation costs. Retail Trade and Services Contacts reported slight moderation in retail sales compared with the previous survey period. Automobile sales fell in June. The decline was centered on domestic makes, for which inventories reached very high levels. However, overall sales recovered somewhat in early July. In retail, a contact from a major department store chain noted that "sales have softened" compared with earlier in the year, although other retail contacts reported further sales increases. Service providers saw strong demand throughout the District. Robust sales were reported for providers of advertising, communications, entertainment, and health-care services. Shipping traffic through District ports expanded, spurred by vigorous international trade flows. District travel and tourism activity strengthened further. Hawaii's tourist traffic has been growing at a double-digit pace compared with a year earlier, and hotel occupancy rates there recently regained their highs from the year 2000. Hotel occupancy rates also rose in San Francisco. Manufacturing District manufacturers reported generally solid demand for their products, although growth slowed in some sectors. Semiconductor sales grew at a slower pace and manufacturers' inventories rose slightly, but capacity utilization in the industry remained high. Demand was strong for some categories of communications equipment, including items used for high-speed Internet access and office computer networks. Metal fabricators, transportation equipment makers, and manufacturers of wood products operated at high levels, although new orders slowed slightly. Demand remained strong for apparel and textile products. Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Contacts reported brisk sales for District agricultural products. Demand for beef cattle and other livestock has been especially strong, reportedly pushing prices to unusually high levels. Berry crop yields were very high in the Pacific Northwest, but solid demand kept prices firm. Similar strength was evident for the California nut and grape crops, although sales reportedly were weak for some other fruit crops in that state. Demand for dairy products remained strong, and one contact noted that milk prices were at five-year highs. Real Estate and Construction Demand for residential real estate remained vigorous, and reports indicated modest further improvement on the nonresidential side. Sales of new and existing homes were rapid in most areas, especially in Southern California and Hawaii, where demand growth noticeably outstripped supply growth and rapid price appreciation continued. However, reports indicated that the pace of home sales and construction starts has leveled off in some parts of the District, including Utah and the Seattle area. Demand for residential rental properties weakened slightly in the Los Angeles area. On the commercial side, demand for office space improved a bit further in some areas, although prices and rental rates remained largely flat. In the population centers east of Los Angeles, demand for commercial real estate was very strong, with prices on industrial space reportedly up 40 percent from a year earlier. Financial Institutions District banking contacts reported strong loan demand and good credit quality on existing loans. Business loan demand increased further in most areas, although contacts in a few areas noted a recent drop due to reduced business optimism about the likely payoff to capital improvements. Lending for new residential mortgages fell somewhat but remains quite high. Several contacts noted significant increases in venture capital funding and planned initial public offerings.