Overview District economic activity weakened somewhat in late October and early November, but respondents continued to be optimistic about business prospects for the next six months. Retail sales and shopper traffic were lower as were most indicators of District factory activity. Loan demand remained sluggish at District financial institutions and few commercial construction projects were underway. On a brighter note, activity was up at District ports and area farmers harvested bumper crops this fall, although the outlook for agriculture was tempered by concern about the effects of dry weather currently gripping the District. Consumer Spending Our regular mail survey indicated that retail activity fell in the District in October and early November. Sales decreased as did shopper traffic, retail employment and capital expenditures. Retailers reported that wholesale prices increased while wages and retail prices rose only slightly. Almost half of the retailers surveyed believed that the recession had not yet bottomed out in their areas; however, they remained optimistic about retail activity for the next six months. Respondents expected sales, capital expenditures and shopper traffic to rise, employment to be stable, and inventories to be unchanged. Most retailers anticipated that wholesale and retail prices would increase over the period. In their responses to our special telephone survey, District retailers expressed less optimism about sales in the weeks immediately ahead. Most said they would be pleased of this year's Christmas sales merely matched last year's. Several retailers reported that they had started their seasonal sales promotions about two weeks earlier than usual, and a number indicated that they might offer discounts for the first time. Generally, retailers who planned to offer discounts were counting on higher sales volumes to offset lower profit margins. They indicated that they were trying to limit their inventories while still offering a wide selection of merchandise. Manufacturing Responses to our regular survey of manufacturers suggested that District factory activity was somewhat lower in October. Respondents reported declines in inventories and employment and they cited excess capacity as the most important problem they were facing currently. Most other indicators of factory activity, including shipments and orders, were unchanged. Manufacturers indicated that general business conditions had worsened, and many felt that their local areas were still in recession. Looking ahead, however, manufacturers remained optimistic about general business conditions and about their prospects for the next six months. Almost half foresaw increases in shipments and new orders, and few expected decreases. A majority of respondents also anticipated increases in most other production indicators except inventories. Port Activity Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that exports and imports increased in October from September. Compared with a year ago, export volume was higher and import volume was mixed. Exports were expected to increase faster than imports during the next six months. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels and resorts in the District indicated that tourist activity was unchanged in October when compared to September and a year ago. Over half the respondents reported that fall bookings were about the same as last year's and all respondents expected tourist activity to remain flat in the months ahead. Commercial Construction Commercial construction remained weak across the District, according to a telephone survey of lenders and contractors. Although some nonspeculative retail construction was proceeding, vacancy rates remained high, and some respondents said it would take several years to absorb the existing vacant space. Although public works projects were responsible for much of the ongoing construction, some large private projects were still underway. No new major commercial construction starts were reported. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that lending activity was lackluster. Most of those surveyed reported that their non-price lending standards had not changed over the last six weeks. With regard to pricing, all of the contacted banks indicated that they had lowered their prim rates recently, and most reported that other interest rates they charged their customers also had decreased over the period. Despite lower rates, banks reported that the demand for consumer and business loans remained weak, although the demand for home mortgage refinancings continued to increase. Agriculture District agricultural analysts reported that crop yields generally were above average, but they said that dry weather may have damaged recently planted crops and reduced winter hay supplies. With harvesting almost complete, analysts reported that District farmers had produced large crops of corn, peanuts, tobacco and sweet potatoes. The analysts cautioned, however, that very dry weather conditions over much of the District were slowing the emergence of fall-planted small grains. Also, dry weather has left District pastures in poor condition and caused concern about the adequacy of forage supplies for the approaching winter.