Summary Economic activity remains slow in most parts of the Twelfth District, and the economic expectations of District business leaders deteriorated further in November. Continued sluggish sales have kept most wage and price increases modest, and concern about the holiday shopping is widespread. Weakness in District manufacturing activity continues. Agricultural conditions remain satisfactory overall, despise several problems including the recent whitefly invasion. Construction and real estate activity remains slow in most parts of the District. With the exception of mortgage refinancing, lending is still weak in most parts of the District. Business Sentiment The economic expectations of business leaders in the Twelfth District deteriorated in November. Eighty-nine percent of business leaders now foresee GNP growth of less than 2.5 percent during the next four quarters, with 25 percent expecting recession. The share of business leaders expecting recession has increased from 7 percent in September and 17 percent in October. The majority of western business leaders now foresee weaker business investment and increasing unemployment during the next four quarters. Expectations of consumer spending also have worsened, with 31 percent of business leaders now projecting improved spending, down from 50 percent in September and 37 percent in October. Wages and Prices Wages and prices are reported stable or increasing only modestly in most parts of the District. Continued sluggish consumer demand is keeping downward pressure on soft goods prices. Prices of many food products are reported below year earlier levels, but the whitefly infestation has led to higher prices for several winter crops, including lettuce, broccoli, and cauliflower. Consumer prices in southern California in October were up 3 percent from a year ago. Wage increases for District firms duster in the 3 to 4 1/2 percent range, with several firms reporting that wage increases will be lower in l992 than they were in l991. Benefits costs continue to rise faster than wages, led by increases in health care plan premiums of 10 to 25 percent. Retail Trade and Services Consumer spending in the District remains sluggish. Department store retailers report continued slow sales. Concern about the holiday shopping season is widespread, although some western retailers feel that the worst is behind them. New-car sales also are reported weak, with little enthusiasm for 1992 models. In contrast, used car sales continue strong, and prices are holding up well. Most retailers report tightly controlled inventories, but a few firms note that sluggish sales have caused some recent increases in inventories. Slow economic activity also is reported at law firms, newspapers, state and local governments, and research and development laboratories. Manufacturing Weakness in District manufacturing activity continues. Layoffs and cutbacks continue at some Oregon high-tech and metals manufacturers. Aluminum manufacturers continue to face low prices and over- capacity. Despite reports of high aluminum inventories, one manufacturer reports that his inventories are "manageable" At Boeing, commercial aircraft production continues strong, but the pace of new orders has slowed considerably from last year. Previously announced layoffs at Boeing in response to Stealth Bomber cutbacks probably will be avoided. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries District agricultural conditions are generally satisfactory. In Washington, apple production fell 5 percent from last year, but prices currently are up 20 percent from a year ago. Prices for potatoes and soybeans are down from a year ago, but wheat prices have strengthened recently in response to the extension of rain credits to Russia. However, beef and dairy prices and demand remain low. In addition, the whitefly infestation in southern California is taking a toll on farmers already hurting from last winter's freeze and the ongoing drought. The poinsettia whitefly has destroyed a large part of the winter vegetable crop, pushing up prices for vegetables such as lettuce, broccoli, and cauliflower. Conditions in other resource industries are mixed. Sawmills and plywood plants continue to close in Oregon, reflecting the persistent weakness in the lumber industry. Orders for some pulp and paper products remain relatively strong, however. Oil and gas drilling activity in the District is still depressed. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate markets remain slow in most parts of the District. In southern California, both residential and commercial activity is weak. House values and home sales are down in Silicon Valley, with particular weakness reported at the upper end of the marks. Home prices in Washington are reported flat to down slightly, while the volume of sales is rising slowly after dropping off earlier this year. Housing starts in Washington are down 25 percent from last year. Commercial construction in San Francisco remains flat. Several respondents cite tight credit conditions as a reason for the slow construction activity. Financial Institutions Conditions at District financial institutions remain mixed. Banks report relatively healthy conditions in Idaho and Utah and, to a lesser extent, in the Pacific Northwest. Demand for home loans in Utah is strong and delinquency rues have fallen to their lowest levels in years. Mortgage refinancings account for a large share of lending activity throughout the District. Commercial construction loan balances at some California banks continue to shrink as existing loans are written off and few new loans are originated.