Summary The recovery in the Seventh District economy has slowed, with contacts revealing slowing momentum in auto production and housing activity. Consumer spending gains remained sluggish, although most District mail contacts still expect holiday sales to be even with or slightly above last year. Auto sales remained weak, prompting further cuts in fourth quarter production schedules. Overall manufacturing activity generally continued to contribute to relative strength in the District economy, but smaller increases in orders and production were recorded by many manufacturers. Housing activity also softened in recent months. Most large District banks reported little change in lending standards, while lower borrower demand was noted by some banks. Consumer Spending District consumer spending gains remain sluggish, according to most contacts, although one large retailer reported significant sales improvement in early November. Surveys conducted for District state retailers' associations generally indicated that sales gains are still expected during the holiday season, but at a somewhat slower pace than last year. A large discount retailer reported slower sales in Detroit and Chicago continued to run below year-earlier levels, in part due to increased competition. A large general merchandise chain reported improved year-over-year sales in early November, with increases well distributed across product lines and across regions. New credit usage at this chain was reported to be above a year ago for the first time in 1991. This contact also indicated that inventories remain higher than desired, particularly for some durable goods. New car sales remained depressed. A District supplier of financial services to car dealers reported that business at most dealerships has continually slowed in recent months. Floor traffic weakened further and was joined by a new softening in the interest level of potential buyers. Car sales in the Midwest have been hit almost as hard as the national average, according to this contact. One of the largest auto dealers in the District reported that sales have been running at half the rate experienced during the summer and early fall, and stated that his experience was repeated for most dealerships in his market area. Another dealer reported that leasing, as well as sales have softened in recent weeks, noting that "used car sales are keeping us afloat." A dealer of a relatively strong selling model indicated that new business has been softer than projected. Manufacturing Purchasing managers surveys supported by contact reports indicate that manufacturing activity continued to bolster the regional economy modestly, although momentum slowed in motor vehicle production. Car and truck assembly schedules continued to be trimmed in recent weeks. The number of plants idled by domestic automakers in mid-November was the highest since March. Underlying demand from consumers remains at recessionary levels, according to this contact. Heavy-duty truck sales and production remain "very depressed," according to an industry consultant, and new softening was reported in demand from agricultural markets. A parts supplier to truck manufacturers doesn't see any rebound signals. District producers of farm and constriction machinery have also been trimming production schedules recently. Purchasing manager surveys have been indicating continued expansion by a slimming majority of District manufacturers in the past two months. The overall index produced by the Chicago survey dropped from a seasonally adjusted 56.2 percent in October to 52.7 percent in November. The picture of slowing but continued growth was generally echoed in recent results for Detroit, Indianapolis, and Southwest Michigan, while the October results for Milwaukee showed conditions improving. Reports from individual manufacturers were mixed. A steel manufacturer reported that industry shipments are now expected to decline from the third quarter to the fourth quarter on a seasonally adjusted basis. A manufacturer of electronic connectors stated that the firm continues to cut costs, because the U.S. market remains sluggish. A brighter picture was offered by a large manufacturer of industrial machinery, who reported that domestic orders have begun to show some improvement on a month-to-month basis, after consistently reporting sluggish conditions during the summer and early fall. Several contacts report that exports and sales by foreign subsidiaries continued to outperform domestic sales. Real Estate/Construction District housing activity generally softened in recent months, although some individual markets continued to hold up relatively well. Recently released state level data show that seasonally adjusted existing home sales declined in four of the five District states from the second quarter to the third quarter, although most of them at a somewhat slower pace than the national average. Sales in Iowa showed a small increase, and one realtor stated that press reports of waning optimism in the Midwest "were written by people who haven't been to Cedar Rapids." Sales in Illinois have softened since June, but prices are holding, according to the state realtors' association. Sales in Wisconsin fell slightly, yet remain well above year-earlier levels, and the states realtor association stated that sales are still on track for a record year. Statements by individual realtors generally were consistent with state-level data, although one large realtor reported the best October in their history, in large part due to gains in market share. The pace of the recovery in housing starts in the District has slowed along with new and existing home sales. A home remodeling association reported that a seasonal surge in business failed to materialize, with business well below year-earlier levels. Several reports suggested little change in the weak commercial real estate market. A supplier of construction materials used in both residential and commercial construction in the Chicago metropolitan area reported that shipments continued to fall in October, and estimated that 1992 shipments will be as much as 25 percent lower than in 1991. Banking Credit standards for approving commercial and industrial loans essentially were unchanged over the past few months. Some of the respondents reported increased loan rate spreads and/or increased credit line costs, with increases more frequently reported for large and medium-sized borrowers than for small firms. At the same time, borrowing demand was generally reported to be little changed over recent months, with softer demand from smaller businesses reported more frequently than from medium-sized or large firms. Where weaker demand was reported, banks most often cited lower customer needs for inventory and capital investment. One banker stated that credit standards consistent with recessionary conditions still hold, but that when "good prospects" for loans appear, competition has intensified, with the borrower benefiting from lower loan rates. Agriculture Heavy rains in recent weeks slowed the wind-up of the fall harvest but helped recharge subsoil moisture. Corn and soybean production estimates for this District, and nationwide, were revised upward again in November. A better than expected harvest and prospects for continued weakness in exports have weighed on crop prices this fall. Corn exports, which declined 27 percent during the year ending with August, are projected to decline an additional 9 percent during the current crop marketing year. Livestock prices have weakened considerably this fall due to evidence of an upturn in red meat production. The expansion now underway among hog farmers in District states and nationwide suggests that per capita pork production in 1991 will be up 7 percent and the largest since 1981. On a more positive note for farm earnings, the distressed conditions among dairy farmers over the past year have eased somewhat as production has leveled-off and milk prices have moved back up above the retreating levels of a year ago.