Summary District economic activity continues to increase modestly, fueled by positive expectations for the current holiday shopping season. Many manufacturing firms have not experienced any recent changes in their demand, but see a bright future. Others, especially those in defense-related industries, continue to undergo reorganizations to compete in global markets. Nonmanufacturing firms have experienced increases in demand, especially retailers; many retailers predict the strongest year-end rally in recent years. Residential housing construction continues to be a source of strength throughout the District. Buoyed by business loan growth, total loans outstanding continue to increase at large District banks. Bumper crops are expected in most areas of the District. Manufacturing Reports from District manufacturing firms continue to be mixed, as some see better times ahead, while others are extremely cautious. One contact in the air conditioning and heating equipment industry reports an optimistic outlook for next year, especially in the aftermath of Hurricane Andrew; sales are expected to increase 10 percent. Other durable goods producers also see improvements. For example, a maker of aluminum wheels for cars and trucks is expanding, leading to 300 new jobs, and an electrical components assembler is moving production from New Jersey to the Memphis area, creating 130 positions. In addition a maker of tennis equipment will renovate its plant and resume production after a two-year suspension, creating 150 new jobs by March, and a shoe plant, previously scheduled to close, will remain open until at least early next year because of an unexpected increase in orders. Among firms less optimistic about the future, one contact in the electrical equipment sector reports that worsening foreign economies have led to growing skepticism about export growth, which had been a bright spot in the company's sales picture. Sales are down about 6 percent from last year's modest level, A glass company in Illinois and an art supply manufacturer in Missouri will close by January, eliminating a total of 500 jobs. As for restructuring in the District, a major chemical company announced a new reorganization and cost reduction plan that will eliminate 500 jobs. Increased development costs for new pharmaceuticals, without similar increases in product prices, have strained the company. A St. Louis defense contractor laid off another 400 workers at the beginning of November. Additional layoffs, possibly affecting up to 3,500 St. Louis workers, are expected in the near future. A maker of agricultural spraying equipment in Arkansas announced that it will move production to Texas and northern Illinois, taking 160 jobs with it. Finally, a company producing household storage containers is closing its Tennessee plant and consolidating production in South Carolina, resulting in a loss of 800 District jobs. Nonmanufacturing Reports from District nonmanufacturing firms are generally optimistic, especially from area retailers. Many area retailers reported increases in sales during October. In light of recently reported increases in consumer confidence and initial reports of strong post-Thanksgiving Day sales, retailers expect inflation- adjusted holiday sales to be up significantly from last year. Some retailers have reported that they would rather forego sales than be stuck with excess inventory; therefore, stock is being maintained at minimal levels. Other nonmanufacturers also see growth. For example, a women's clothing chain is expanding its Memphis distribution facility, adding 100 new jobs, and a mortgage company that had previously laid off about 700 St. Louis employees will add 250 new positions during the next six months. A telecommunications firm, however, decided to close its Louisville office, eliminating more than 110 jobs. Construction and Real Estate Residential construction continues to be a bright spot in most parts of the District. Single-family housing permits in September and October were up substantially from their year-ago levels, though most areas reported stronger year-over-year increases in September than in October. New and existing home sales are also reported as strong in most areas of the District. One contact noted that recent increases in interest rates have encouraged potential homebuyers to get into the market before rates rise further. Banking and Finance Loans outstanding at 12 large District banks increased 0.6 percent from mid-September to mid-November, after declining 0.4 percent during the prior two months. Much of this turnaround can be attributed to business loans, which grew 1 percent during the past two months after a 4.7 percent decline during the prior two months. Consumer loans rose 1.6 percent from mid-September to mid-November after a 2.8 percent increase from mid-July to mid-September. Real estate loans, however, remained flat, declining as much in the last two months as they had risen in the prior two months. A sample of 93 small and mid-sized District banks showed comparable trends. All categories of loans except for consumer loans posted increases in the last two months that exceeded their performance in the prior two months. Agriculture and Natural Resources Persistent rainfall has hampered the fall harvest in many District areas. For example, the corn harvests in Illinois, Indiana and Missouri are expected to continue well into December. The cotton harvest is also behind schedule in Tennessee. Nonetheless, bumper crops are expected in most areas. Record corn and soybean yields are expected in Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Missouri and Tennessee; Arkansas also expects to have a record soybean yield this fall. In terms of actual production, Illinois and Indiana farmers expect to have record-breaking corn and soybean crops, while Kentucky and Missouri farmers expect to harvest a record corn crop as well. A record rice crop is expected in Arkansas and Missouri; likewise, Tennessee cotton producers expect to harvest a record crop.