Summary Seventh District economic conditions improved in October and November. Consumer spending continued to advance on a seasonally adjusted basis, and appears to have gained momentum in recent weeks. Retrenchment was evident in the District's manufacturing sector in August and September, but activity seems to have stabilized and moved somewhat higher. Automakers' appraisals of market conditions were much improved compared to the third quarter, when production edged downward. Household survey data depict a significantly more robust recovery in District labor markets than establishment survey estimates, and a quarterly survey of hiring plans showed continued improvement in the Midwest. However, large firms generally have stated that hiring in 1993 will be restricted even in the event of a significant economic upturn. Reports on commercial and industrial loan demand were mixed but suggestive of some strengthening overall. A record soybean harvest is nearly complete, but extensive rains have led to major delays in the corn harvest. Consumer Spending Consumer spending in the District appears to have moved higher in October and November, and retailers' expectations for holiday sales gains rose in recent weeks. One recent survey showed that the percentage of Michigan retailers expecting holiday sales increases reached the highest level in the past eight years. The survey's director stated that "this is a clear break from the uncertainty of the recent past." Another holiday sales survey indicated that a greater share of retailers in Illinois and southern Wisconsin expect sales gains than the national average. A discount retailer reported that sales stalled out during election week, then reversed and strengthened significantly in mid-to-late November. This retailer raised its forecast for sales in the holiday season, and is now looking for its best year-over-year holiday sales increase (in real terms) in the last eight years. A survey conducted by a check processing firm indicated that day-after-Thanksgiving activity rose over 10 percent in the Midwest, compared to 5 percent nationally. One District retailer reported that same-store sales gains improved over the Thanksgiving weekend in spite of bad weather. Autos After losing some momentum in the third quarter, the auto industry contributed to growth in the District economy in recent months. A large automaker stated that dealer orders had been lagging sales as the market softened in the third quarter, but orders turned around and rose faster than sales during October and early November. Another automaker noted that recent light truck sales gains have been well distributed by product category, with new increases in sales of full-size pickups (which are primarily for commercial use). Dealer complaints about the "upside-down" problem (where used car trade-in value is less than the outstanding loan balance) have been on the wane, according to another automaker, and there has been a substantial increase in the number of debt-free vehicles on the road. One automaker noted continued increases in used car prices, which also could help buoy the trade-in market. Increasingly optimistic appraisals of sales trends were joined by higher expectations for production, although significant gains were not expected to develop until the first quarter of 1993. Another automaker noted that the scheduled gain in car production in the first quarter of 1993 would be the best (on a seasonally adjusted basis) in the last two years, although actual assemblies are dependent on dealer orders holding at current levels. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity moved sideways to modestly higher in October and November, and reports from individual firms took on a more positive tone following the national election. A majority of District manufacturers continued to report production gains in various purchasing managers' surveys. That majority grew increasingly thin during the third quarter and into October, although some improvement was evident in the Chicago survey for November. The price component of the Chicago index fell for the fifth consecutive month in November, reaching one of the lowest levels in the past five years. The production component of the Milwaukee survey joined its counterpart in the Chicago survey by falling in October and rising in November, but signaled expansion in activity during both months. Surveys conducted in Western Michigan were summarized in October by the survey's director as indicating that "things are flat and getting flatter," although modest improvement was noted in November. A survey of metalworking firms in the Chicago area indicated some slowing in the rate of recovery in October. Reports provided by individual manufacturers were more optimistic in recent weeks than in October. A manufacturer of parts used in heavy machinery stated that "after the usual lead times following the end of a recession, we are beginning to sea a recovery in capital goods markets." This company also noted that sales of controls for household appliances continue to benefit from the housing recovery. A large appliance manufacturer expected industry-wide domestic shipments to rise modestly again next year. A chemical company reported that sales of coatings used in finishing consumer durable goods are "by far our strongest" area, principally due to strength in sales of housing-related products like cabinetry and furniture. At the same time, this contact noted that sales of coatings used in general industrial purposes remained soft. An office furniture manufacturer stated that sales stopped declining in August, and have experienced a modest but consistent recovery since then. A large manufacturer of fluid power equipment reported that the heavy-duty truck market "is clearly the strongest area of our business." Assemblies have grown slower than orders, mainly because OEMs have been trying to lock in production for later-than-usual delivery next year. However, this contact did not express concern about the prospect of order cancellations, and expects heavy-duty truck assemblies to rise nearly 20 percent in 1993. Employment District labor markets continued to recover in recent months, although measuring the extent of the recovery is difficult with available data. Establishment survey data suggest that total District nonfarm payroll employment was flat to slightly higher in recent months, but household survey data and reports from temporary help firms suggest a stronger upturn may be underway. According to household survey estimates, District employment began a significant recovery late in 1991, and by August 1992 had returned to pre- recession levels. More recently, the unemployment rate fell markedly in Illinois over the four months ended in October, as a sharp decline in the number of people reporting themselves unemployed was joined by a significant increase in the number of people having a job. A quarterly survey of employer hiring intentions indicated renewed improvement among Midwest firms. Anecdotal evidence for a recovery in permanent employment among larger District companies remained sparse at best, however, with most firms indicating that productivity gains are expected to restrict hiring, even if economic growth increases. A large retailer stated that retailing is rapidly becoming more capital intensive. A communications company reported that continued growth in telephone line installation has been driven partly by a trend among its customer base towards substitution of labor with capital. A large food processing company stated that "as we put capital in, we take people out." Banking Reports from large banks on the demand for their commercial and industrial loans were mixed but suggestive of some strengthening overall. Those banks reporting improved demand cited customers' financing needs for capital spending more frequently than for inventory investment. Several banks reported having undertaken efforts to strengthen capital positions in recent months; planned or actual equity issuance was the most frequently cited measure. Loan sales and securitization initiatives were noted more frequently than credit standard tightening. Regulatory capital positions were characterized as adequate or comfortable by each bank contacted. Credit standards and loan terms were largely unchanged, although a minority of respondents noted a modest decline in the spread between loan rates and base rates. Agriculture Farmers in District states have nearly completed what is estimated to be a record soybean harvest, but progress in harvesting the record-large corn crop is characterized as the slowest in 20 or 30 years. As of November 22, a third of the corn acreage in District states was still waiting to be harvested. The high moisture content of this year's slow-to-mature crop accounted for the initial harvest delays. More recently, extensive rains have limited the amount of field-drying and rendered many fields too muddy. The harvest in several areas of the District may not be finished until well into the winter months. The field losses on the remaining acreage will be larger than normal. The losses will be costly to individual farmers but are not likely to alter the overall implications of a record crop.