Overview Overall District business conditions improved slightly in recent weeks, although activity in many sectors remained sluggish. Retail sales increased somewhat, but manufacturing was unchanged. Activity at District ports was mixed. Residential real estate continued to improve, but commercial real estate was lackluster. Credit conditions were unchanged at District financial institutions, while state tax collections showed strength in most jurisdictions. In agriculture, fall harvesting neared completion in most areas of the District. Consumer Spending Our regular survey indicated that retail activity strengthened somewhat in recent weeks. Shopper traffic and sales, excluding big- ticket items, apparently increased, as did wholesale and retail prices. No change was reported in employment or capital expenditures. Wages generally were unchanged, although a few respondents indicated that wages rose. Retailers were upbeat about recent business conditions and foresaw improved prospects for the next six months. Respondents said general business activity increased both in their areas and in the United States. Looking ahead, retailers expected increases in most indicators, especially sales and shopper traffic. Manufacturing Manufacturers indicated that District factory activity held steady during the past month. Respondents noted little change in most indicators, although they reported lower levels of order backlogs and apparently paid higher prices for raw materials. Respondents cited government regulation as the most important problem they faced. Manufacturers were sanguine about their prospects for the next six months. Increases in most indicators were anticipated, but raw materials inventories and the number of workers were expected to be unchanged. Finished goods inventories were expected to decline. Ports Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), reported that imports were higher in October than in September while exports were generally lower. Compared to a year ago, import activity was generally higher and export activity remained about the same. During the next six months, exports were expected to increase at Charleston but to remain unchanged at Baltimore and Hampton Roads. Tourism Hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity in November was unchanged from October but was below year-ago levels. About half of the respondents reported that fall bookings were about even with a year ago while most other respondents reported declines. Regarding the outlook for the next several months, respondents were evenly divided between those who expected tourist activity to improve and those who expected activity to be unchanged. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that credit conditions were little changed over the last six weeks. Respondents stated that both commercial and consumer loan demand were steady. Rates on commercial loans were unchanged while those on consumer loans were lower. Banks noted that mortgage loan rates Increased recently and that home mortgage activity slowed because of lessened home refinancings. Some nonbank institutions continued to report that stringent examination standards hampered their ability to lend to creditworthy customers. Residential Real Estate A telephone survey of realtors suggested that activity in the residential market continued to improve in most of the District, although increased buyer apprehension apparently slowed activity in some areas. Home prices remained steady. New home sales were stronger than existing home sales in the Carolinas and in the Washington, D.C. area, while the reverse occurred elsewhere in the District. Nonresidential Real Estate Activity in the commercial real estate market generally remained sluggish, but realtors indicated that leasing activity improved. Vacancy rates in the office and retail markets fell slightly because of the absorption of existing space. In the Columbia, South Carolina area, several new shopping centers were under construction, but little new commercial development was reported elsewhere. State Government Revenues Tax revenues continued to grow in District states according to forecasters contacted by telephone. In several states, tax analysts suggested that Income tax withholding collections were running at higher levels than state employment figures would suggest, which indicated that state employment figures may have understated actual job growth. Several tax forecasters reported increases in tax collections from retail and real estate sales. Agriculture and Forestry Analysts reported that crop conditions improved in recent weeks. Favorable weather allowed completion of fall harvesting across most of the District, although rain continued to hamper activity in South Carolina. Preliminary estimates indicated record or near-record corn yields. Lumber industry contacts reported strong demand and prices for hardwood lumber. Furniture manufacturers, both in the United States and abroad, apparently were the primary source of the increased demand. Industry contacts indicated that lumber prices rose in response to stronger demand and tougher government regulations on lumber suppliers.