Reports on economic conditions point to modest improvement in most Federal Reserve districts, but the rate of gain is uneven. Ten of the 12 districts note a slight to moderate pickup in some or all sectors of the economy. By contrast, San Francisco indicates that weakness in California is offsetting moderate growth elsewhere in the district. Retail activity is reportedly increasing across most of the nation, and retailers are optimistic about the current holiday season. Manufacturing is improving in about half of the districts, generally, quite modestly. Ongoing cutbacks in defense remain a notable drag on the recovery in some regions. Residential real estate markets continue to pick up in most of the nation, but commercial real estate, where mentioned, remains weak. Loan demand reportedly increased in several districts, but credit conditions remain unchanged in others. The fall harvest is almost complete, with record yields and output recorded in most crops. Retail Retail sales in October and early November reportedly gained strength in all districts but San Francisco; results in that district were mixed, with California performing poorly relative to the other states. In five districts, sales in recent weeks were better than expected. Respondents in most districts noted greater consumer confidence. The Boston and Chicago reports link the change in consumer attitudes to the end of the Presidential campaign. New York retailers attribute modest increases to promotional efforts rather than to improvements in general economic conditions. Consumer confidence remains poor in southern California. Recent sales increases seem focused in nondurables. Apparel sales, in particular, were strong in New York, Cleveland, and Kansas City. Most districts reporting on auto sales found modest increases or slight declines, while sales of light trucks were strong in Chicago and Cleveland. In the three districts commenting on tourism, business was mixed. Despite increased sales, retailers across districts are satisfied with current inventory levels. While costs and prices are generally perceived as flat, reports from Boston, Cleveland, and Atlanta note less consumer insistence on discounts. Only Richmond sees increases in wholesale and retail prices. Except in California, retailers reportedly expect 1992 holiday sales gains to be better than last year's. However, the degree of optimism ranges from "the best performance in eight years" (in Chicago) to "nothing spectacular" (in New York). Manufacturing Recent manufacturing activity has been flat to slightly improved across much of the nation. Indicators from Dallas are generally strong, and Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Chicago report small gains, on average. Overall activity in the Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, and Minneapolis districts is described as "steady" or "unchanged," while many manufacturers in the New York district and California continue to experience weak demand. Demand for home building and furnishing products has strengthened among manufacturers located in the Boston, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas districts. But demand for autos, auto components, and other transportation equipment varies considerably across districts. For example, while Chicago district automakers report recent growth after a third-quarter sag, transportation equipment did not participate in the widespread rise in production reported for the Philadelphia district. Sales have improved for computer software and some hardware (Boston, Dallas, San Francisco), as well as for various nondurables (Atlanta, St. Louis, Dallas). The defense sector is an area of declining demand in the Boston, New York, Atlanta, St. Louis, and San Francisco districts. Although Kansas City notes positive export results, foreign sales are identified as an item of concern in the Boston, St. Louis, and Dallas districts. Little to no general inflationary pressure is reported. However, high capacity utilization rates have led or are expected to lead to firming prices for some construction materials and steel. Many districts continue to report employment reductions in manufacturing, although in some cases the rate of decline has abated and scattered hiring has occurred. Two-thirds of the Federal Reserve Banks note signs of positive or improved expectations about future business. Employment is not expected to increase in proportion to demand, however, as manufacturers across the nation are intent on cutting costs and improving labor productivity. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate tell a tale of two markets, with improvements in the residential sector but continued stagnation on the commercial side. All districts report improved sales for existing and new single family homes, although Boston, New York and Richmond note doubts as to whether this improvement will be sustained. Home sales in the Dallas-Fort Worth area are at the highest level in five years. San Francisco reports that sales of existing homes in California rose in October, the first monthly increase since February. New York, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City and Dallas all cite increases in single-family starts or permits in their districts. The commercial market, however, remains weak. Boston and Dallas report very sluggish conditions in commercial offices, while Richmond and New York have areas showing limited net absorption. Minneapolis finds a large excess supply of commercial property. In southern California, some rents have fallen 25 to 40 percent. San Francisco also cites forecasts that show California rents falling another 10 to 15 percent in 1993 and increased foreclosures. No district reports any growth in commercial construction, although Boston and Minneapolis report some public sector building. Financial Services Financial institutions report a slight increase in overall loan demand despite a falloff in mortgage refinancings. A rising interest in business loans was noted by Philadelphia, Kansas City and St. Louis. Dallas and Atlanta report an increase in consumer loans. New York indicates that although residential mortgage activity continued strong, consumer loan demand weakened and demand for nonresidential mortgages remained soft. Demand for business loans is also weak in the San Francisco district. Boston reports that contacts among investment management companies experienced increases in assets under management. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries The fall harvest is over except for corn, which has been delayed by rain or snow in the Richmond and Midwest agricultural districts. Despite the wet weather, growers report record yields for corn as well as for the soybean, cotton, rice, and sugar beet crops harvested earlier. Abundant supplies have reduced feed prices and improved profits for dairy farmers, feedlot operators, and ranchers in the Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas districts. Thus, farmers in these areas continue to pay down debt. Nevertheless, according to contacts in Dallas, net farm income is likely to fall in 1992 because of declines in prices and government subsidies and increases in production costs. As for lumber and wood products, strong demand from U.S. and foreign furniture makers has raised prices for hardwood from the Richmond district. Demand for western newsprint also remains strong, but restricted access to public timber supplies is noted as a problem in the Northwest. Several mills have closed recently because of a shortage of logs. Mining in the Minneapolis district continues slow; workers from the iron mines are on furlough, and oil and gas production and refining are generally unchanged. By contrast, contacts in the Kansas City and Dallas districts note a possibly temporary pickup in drilling, especially for natural gas. While oil and gas prices have drifted down, natural gas inventories are described as tight, and below-average temperatures could spur price increases.