Summary Economic activity in the Fourth District is reviving slowly after several months of weakness. Employment is rising and unemployment is falling. Durable goods are selling well but non-durable goods sales are sluggish. Manufacturing activity is weak but no longer declining. Housing activity is improving slowly, and business and consumer loan demands continue to increase. District Labor Market Conditions Ohio employment (s.a.) increased in December and January, while unemployment (s.a.) fell in January by more than it had risen in December. The unemployment rate (s.a.) fell from 9.1 percent in December to 8.4 percent in January. Surveys of manufacturers indicate little change in manufacturing employment (n.s.a.). Unemployment rates (n.s.a.) in December in ten metropolitan areas in this District ranged from 6.4 percent in Columbus to 15.1 percent in Wheeling, a steel-producing center. Local indexes of leading indicators of employment for the Pittsburgh and Cleveland metropolitan areas have been flat for several months, suggesting that employment in those areas is unlikely to grow much in the near term. Retail Sales February retail sales trends in the Fourth District have followed the national pattern. Hard goods, especially autos, continue to sell well. Car dealers are intentionally carrying higher-than-normal inventories in expectation of even stronger sales in the spring. Electronics, especially VCR's, are selling well, and competitive new imports are keeping prices down. The only weak durable goods are nonhigh-tech appliances and furniture. Soft goods, especially apparel, fell prey to bad weather and sales improved only marginally in the last half of February when Fourth District weather conditions improved. Nevertheless, department stores do not plan further price cuts to reduce inventories because their margins are already thin. Instead, they plan to reduce orders to eliminate excess inventories of soft goods. Manufacturing Surveys of manufacturers in the Cleveland and Cincinnati areas indicate weakness in manufacturing activity. Manufacturers in Cleveland and northeast Ohio report their level of production has stabilized after falling in January and new orders have stabilized after four months of decline. In Cincinnati, production is rising slowly, new orders are flat, and order backlogs are declining. Inventories of raw materials and components are falling in Cleveland and are flat in Cincinnati while inventories of finished goods are flat in Cleveland and rising slowly in Cincinnati. Prices paid by manufacturers continue to rise very slowly. A major producer of industrial chemicals reports export markets are weakening, while growing shares of strong domestic markets are being absorbed by imports. Producers of parts for the automobile industry report demand is very strong. A large steel producer reports orders for flat-rolled sheet products used by the auto industry have surged to capacity. Steel prices are below published schedules and imports continue to rise. A survey of manufacturing firms in the midwest indicates they are not changing their plans to increase capital spending this year. A producer of parts for trucks and autos is planning to invest significantly more this year to modernize production facilities and to locate production plants closer to customers to meet growing demands for just-in-time deliveries. The firm reports that sales of smaller trucks are at a record pace but sales growth of heavy-duty trucks has slowed and manufacturers are asking suppliers to delay delivery of components. A major producer of material used in commercial construction reports record demand, and believes that tax incentives must be stimulating construction of office buildings because vacancy rates continue to rise. The firm has pushed back to late-1985 its forecast for a decline in its sales, and expects a 3- year to 4-year slump in commercial construction, especially office buildings, because of excess space. Housing Housing activity in Ohio is reviving, hut more slowly than in many other areas of the country. Market participants generally expect that sales will improve steadily during the first and second quarters because of lower mortgage rates, but builders remain extremely cautious. A large savings and loan association reports that applications and inquiries in February were substantially higher than a year ago. Fixed-rate mortgages are regaining popularity among borrowers because of the narrowing rate spread between fixed-rate and adjustable rate mortgages and tighter underwriting criteria for adjustable rate mortgages. A savings and loan association reports that its mortgage delinquencies are rising, and higher delinquency rates are likely to persist because slow appreciation of home prices has eliminated the incentive for some buyers to reschedule payments with the mortgagee. Most builders in this region had laid plans for strong sales in 1984 but had a poor year. Builders are assuming that housing starts nationally will equal 1.5 million units in 1985. They have reduced their geographic market coverage, scaled down production facilities, reduced their inventories to maximize profits in a soft market. Commercial Banking Loan demand appears to have strengthened at District banks in recent weeks. Business loans registered the largest gain in outstandings, and consumer loan volume continued to grow at a relatively good pace. Contacts expect additional pick-up of business loan demand and continued strength in consumer loan demand. The market share of auto loans held by banks, however, is likely to decline somewhat because below-market loan rates are being offered on selected models by captive finance companies of some auto manufacturers. Overall deposit growth has been moderate at District banks in the past six weeks, Inflows of time and savings deposits have more than a offset reductions in demand deposits. District banks also have increased their reliance on purchased funds including large negotiable certificates of deposit.