Summary Conflicting trends in the Seventh District suggest that overall improvement, if any, in this region in 1985 will again lag the national performance. With total payroll employment still 7 percent below the levels of 1978-79, job seekers far outnumber openings. Severe distress is reported throughout the Cornbelt, with many farmers complaining about availability of credit "to get crops in the ground." Depression in the farm sector is unprecedented since the 1930s. Producers of mechanical capital goods face very weak markets with more plant closings announced and anticipated, especially in farm and construction equipment. On the favorable side, motor vehicle output is scheduled above last year's high level in the first and second quarters. Steel output is improving, helped by new import controls. Commercial construction activity is vigorous, but both residential and nonresidential construction remain substantially below the levels of the late 1970s. Reports on consumer purchases vary, but retailers are pushing hard for available trade, with profit margins thin at best. Plant Closings Various District manufacturers have announced further plant shutdowns, some temporary, others permanent. A diversified firm will permanently close a construction equipment plant in Iowa. A meat packer will close two pork processing facilities in Iowa. A producer of large farm tractors is shifting operations to Europe from Michigan. A large Detroit brewery, dating to the nineteenth century, is to be closed. Reasons for plant closings include excess capacity, severe competition, the high value of the dollar, and antiquated, high-cost facilities. Motor Vehicles Auto sales in January and February have been vigorous and production schedules through mid-year exceed 1984. However, cutbacks have occurred in output of some small cars, and several companies are offering cut-rate financing to boost sales. While auto producers have been placing orders for steel to support planned output through April, they retain flexibility to lower schedules later in the second quarter. Industry observers see extension of current restraints on Japanese imports as unlikely, but less formal "guidance" may mean only moderately higher imports. A leading truck producer expects sales of medium trucks to rise 5 percent in 1985, with sales of heavy trucks to be near 1984's high level, but weaker in the second half. Steel Raw steel production in the Chicago area has improved in recent weeks to the highest levels since mid-1984. More furnaces have been lit and more workers recalled. Orders for most types of steel have improved "fairly sharply." Strongest lines are motor vehicles, appliances, office furniture, and commercial buildings. Demand for steel from heavy capital goods producers is still slow. New import restraints are taking hold. Foreign steel inventoried when imports surged last year probably is being drawn down. One analyst expects the restraint program to reduce imports by 5 million tons from l984's record 26 million tons. Capital Goods Most heavy capital goods lines remain weak, partly because of the high value of the dollar. Orders for construction machinery, food processing, materials handling, and oil and gas exploration generally continue slow. Railcar orders have slipped from low levels in last year's first half. A District company which sold its domestic farm equipment lines is liquidating finished inventories, offering large bonuses to dealers. Another diversified company is seeking a buyer for its farm machinery business. Gypsum and Paper Gypsum board demand in 1985 is expected to remain near 1984's record level. Capacity in this industry has been shifting in recent years to the South and West as older plants have been closed and new plants opened. However, repair and remodel work, one-third or more of the market for gypsum board, is concentrated in regions with more older buildings, the East and Midwest. Paperboard shipments are projected to rise two percent in 1985 from the 1984 record. Industry output is near capacity. Construction Bidding activity on nonresidential projects, especially office and retail, in the Chicago area is vigorous, and activity should remain strong in 1985. Highway work also is projected to continue at a high level, depending in part on release of federal funds. The decline in mortgage interest rates since mid-1984 has improved the climate for new housing, but some lenders have raised rates recently. With the wide variety of mortgages now available, some speak of 100 varieties, generalizations about terms are difficult. Consumer Spending Reports on general merchandise sales recently have been mixed, but mostly disappointing. Airline passenger miles were up 12 percent in January from year ago. Fare cutting has intensified since then. A Chicago-based regional airline recently cut flights by one-fourth, froze pay, and announced layoffs. Agriculture District farmers expect to plant about the same acreage in corn and soybeans in 1985 as last year, according to the USDA February survey. The report attracted more interest than usual because of concerns that many farmers will be hard pressed to obtain sufficient production financing. Some analysts argue that current financial stress undermines the reliability of this year's planting intentions report, which historically has been fairly reliable.