Summary and Outlook Little change is expected in business conditions through mid-1985. The volume of business is expected to rise marginally in the next three months. Respondents expect only modest increases in price and employment levels. Retail sales, though mixed, were up slightly overall in February from the January level. Growth in total loan volume slowed in the first half of February, from the seasonally strong January rate. There is evidence of additional erosion in farmland values, with the decline expected to last at least through 1985. Cattle and hog prices are beginning to weaken seasonally. Consumer Spending Retail sales were up slightly overall in February from the January level. Though some respondents report strong sales, one respondent said the retail industry as a whole is going through a period of weakness, and estimated only a 2 to 3 percent growth in retail sales over the 1984 level for the Louisville area. Business Activity Business activity as measured by an index of seven components has increased in the District. The index moved upward in Arkansas and Missouri in January, at rates of 7 and 4 percent, respectively. In Kentucky and Tennessee, where data are available only through December, the index rose 3 percent and 7 percent, respectively, for the month. Business activity in all four states was 2 to 6 percent above 1984 levels. The paper and paper products industry reports that sales since mid- December have been only one-half as strong as previously expected. They cite price weakness and inventory build-up as their main concerns. Excessive inventory levels also were reported by other industrial firms in early February. As a result, industrial employment has remained essentially flat. Capital spending increases for 1985 have been reduced from earlier estimates, though an increase over last year's level is still planned. Construction Single-family housing starts remain sluggish despite lower mortgage rates. Respondents remain optimistic about the outlook for 1985; however. Housing starts are expected to rise 10 to 12 percent above the 1984 level in the Louisville area. Multi-family housing construction remains strong in the Memphis area. The time required to fill available office space in the District has lengthened, which generally indicates an excess supply of nonresidential buildings. Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at large District banks grew at a 30 percent annual rate in January over the previous four weeks (not seasonally adjusted). Through the first half of February, however, total loan growth has fallen to a 10 percent annual rate, just slightly below the long term trend rate. Both the rapid January growth and the more recent return to trend can be attributed to fluctuations in consumer and real estate lending. Commercial and industrial lending has risen only modestly over the period. Much of the January growth in consumer lending can be attributed to the normal increase of the Christmas season. A January survey found that bills to establish regional interstate banking zones had been introduced into legislative committees in 5 of 7 District states. Of the two remaining states, Kentucky enacted a regional interstate banking bill in 1984, while no such legislation was pending in Mississippi. More recently, the Missouri House banking committee rejected the interstate provisions of a banking bill. The House action will hinder interstate legislation proposed in the state's Senate. A House spokesperson stated that interstate banking provisions would be reexamined this year only if neighboring states adopt such legislation. Agriculture Despite uncertainty over loan guarantees and the 1985 farm bill, planting intentions surveys indicate increased feedgrain acreage and reduced acreage in oilseeds. With large surpluses still in storage, normal weather this year would show large harvests, keeping prices near loan rates. Survey evidence shows additional erosion in land values, further weakening the ability of some farmers to obtain credit; expectations are for a continuation of this decline, at least through 1985. Livestock producers, who currently face profitable marketing opportunities, also are beginning to see some seasonal price weakness.