Overview With the notable exception of agriculture, the Tenth District economy continues to show modest improvement. Retail sales have picked up somewhat recently, accompanied by stable prices. Inventory levels are generally judged to be satisfactory. Housing starts are slightly lower then high year-ago levels but well above 1983 levels. Mortgage rates have shown little change recently and little change is expected in the months ahead. Problems remain in the agricultural sector, with 5 percent or somewhat less of farmers expected to be forced out of farming this spring. Most lenders are wary of the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) program to restructure farm debt. Loan demand at district banks is mixed, as is deposit behavior. Retail Trade Most retailers report that sales picked up recently. Sales have been strongest in the area of women's wear. Retail prices have remained stable in the past three months. More than half of the reporting retailers are satisfied with current inventories and expect inventories to expand later this year if sales strengthen. Prices are expected to remain stable in the next six months, and sales are expected either to remain flat or increase slightly above 1984 levels. Automobile Dealers Automobile dealers report sales ranging from slightly ahead to slightly behind year-ago levels. Credit market conditions remain relatively attractive, and financing is available both for floor planning and new car sales. The inventory situation is mixed, with some dealers satisfied while others are expanding. Despite recent weakness in some areas, dealers are optimistic that 1985 sales will prove even better than strong 1984 sales. Purchasing Agents Purchasing agents report that input price, remained fairly constant during the last three months. Slight increases are expected in the remainder of the year. Agents report no problems in obtaining materials, and none are anticipated. Inventories are reported to be at satisfactory levels, with no bottlenecks. Housing Activity and Finance Homebuilders report that housing starts are slightly lower than the high year-ago level, although starts are well above 1983 levels. Sales of new homes are about the same as year-ago levels, and new home prices have remained stable. Savings and loans report that mortgage loan demand is about the same as a year ago. Mortgage rates have remained fairly stable so far in 1985, and few changes are expected during the rest of the year. Savings inflows have also been similar to last year, despite lower minimum deposit requirements on MMDA's and Super NOW's. Agriculture Estimates of the proportion of farmers and ranchers who not receive credit from their usual bank source this spring vary widely across the district. Bankers in ranching areas report that practically all of their customers continue creditworthy. In grain-producing areas, most bankers report that 5 to 10 percent of their customers will not receive bank credit for spring operating expenses, though estimates are higher in some parts of the district, and as low as 2 to 3 percent in other parts. Some of these farmers will obtain credit from the FmHA or from suppliers. Many farmers will leave farming this spring, with the proportion estimated at 5 percent or somewhat less. The land market continues very soft, with very little land changing hands. Parts of Kansas, Nebraska, and Colorado report that about 15 to 20 percent of the land in the area is for sale. Parts of Wyoming and Colorado report much higher proportions of land for sale, though the proportion is affected by nonagricultural uses of the land. In Missouri and parts of Nebraska and New Mexico, very little land is actually listed for sale, though bankers indicate that this is probably due to a lack of buyers, not an unwillingness to sell. Most bankers continue to be wary of the FmMA program to restructure farm debt because of bureaucratic procedures that slow loan guarantee approvals. Moreover, many loans require a significant interest rate reduction to achieve a break-even cash flow. Many bankers appear reluctant to lower rates enough to meet the requirements. Participation in the program is heaviest in Kansas and parts of Nebraska, Oklahoma, and Colorado. Some bankers continue to ignore the program completely. Banking Respondents at Tenth District banks give mixed reports on loan demand. Roughly equal numbers of banks report increased, unchanged, and decreased loan demand. Consumer loans have shown the greatest tendency to rise, while residential and agricultural loans have shown the greatest tendency to fall. Deposits also have displayed mixed behavior across district banks. Super NOW accounts, MMDA's, and IRA's have registered gains, while demand deposits and passbook savings accounts have registered losses. The prime rate stands at 10.50 percent at a majority of the banks, down from 10.75 percent last month. Consumer lending rates have either not changed or fallen slightly. No further declines are expected. All institutions sampled either have lowered or will soon lower the minimum deposit on MMDA's and Super NOW's to the allowable $1,000. Lowering the minimum deposit is viewed as necessary to match competitors but has not generated any growth in deposits.