at a moderate rate in October and early November, while price pressures remained largely in check. Consumer spending appeared to have rebounded from a sluggish September, and regional retailers reported that they were aggressively seeking seasonal workers. Housing activity continued to slow moderately, although most contacts continued to rate the market as strong. Manufacturers were operating at very high levels and indicators suggest a near-term pickup. Banking activity remained strong despite some softening in commercial and industrial lending. Very tight labor markets persisted, while overall job growth in the District lagged that of the nation. Consumer Spending While still above year-ago levels, retail sales remained relatively flat in early November, following October? s improvements. Several large retailers attributed overall sales gains to strength in apparel sales, aided partly by the onset of cold weather. Home appliance and electronic sales were soft compared to earlier months, but retailers expect a pickup in December. Inventory levels were considered to be in good to excellent shape by retailers. Several retailers noted that there will be a big push in promotional activity ahead, mainly because November sales targets will be hard to achieve with Thanksgiving coming so late in the month. One retailer, trying to maintain market share, reported plans to increase their price-discounting promotions. Most retailers, however, appeared to be focusing on boosting advertising to attract customers as early in the holiday season as possible. Retailers contacted remained very optimistic about sales during the holiday selling season (despite fewer shopping days), with Midwest sales expected to outperform other regions of the country. One major retailer felt that sales for the holiday selling season as a whole would not be affected by the late Thanksgiving because many consumers start their holiday shopping around mid-December. Housing/Construction Housing activity continued to slow in the District, but most contacts reported that the market remained very strong. One of the region? s largest realtors reported that October? s existing home sales had decreased from the torrid pace earlier in the year, but it was still their second best October ever. New home sales also declined in October and early November in most areas but, again, remained at very high levels. A national survey of home builders suggested that the Midwest? s early November sales continued to decline slightly from the late summer? s weather-delayed gains. Builders noted a sharp drop-off in foot traffic, causing several builders to lower their expectations for the remainder of 1996 as well as the first quarter of 1997. Among building material suppliers, one major wallboard producer reported that shipments to the Midwest remained very strong, noting that there is about a three-month lag between changes in housing starts and wallboard shipments. This producer reported that the industry was able to push through a modest price increase in September and has announced another for December. If it holds up, as the industry expects, it would be the first time in several years that the industry was able to push through an increase this late in the year, a sign which this contact said indicates the strength in the market. Activity on the commercial side of the real estate market picked up slightly in recent weeks, due in large part to declining interest rates. One contact also reported that commercial refinancing activity was increasing. Manufacturing Despite some disruptions from the auto strikes, manufacturing activity remained strong in October and early November, with some reports suggesting a slight pickup in the pace of expansion. Several purchasing managers' surveys indicated moderate increases in October and November from already high levels of overall activity in September. New orders were particularly strong, but inventory building was also evident. However, prices paid remained relatively flat and, in one area surveyed, delivery times were shortening. A sharp increase in new orders of heavy-duty trucks was reported by the industry for October, with orders strength continuing into November. Heavy ordering occurred from the major haulers, something that was absent a year ago due to already huge backlogs at that time. A producer of heavy construction equipment reported that unit sales for the industry in October were slightly above year- ago levels. Appliance shipments, which declined in September on a year-over-year basis, rebounded in October and appeared to be holding up in November. Steel orders into the first quarter are strong, but new capacity coming online (albeit more slowly than the industry expected) is holding down price increases. Although a slowdown in auto production from the third quarter was widely expected, several auto suppliers reported a drop in their shipments related to auto production cutbacks during the GM strikes. A major supplier of chemicals noted a plateauing of demand in recent weeks that was at least partly linked to the auto strikes. Despite solid sales growth so far this year, this producer also reported that they have staunchly resisted price increases from their raw material suppliers. Banking Lending activity remained strong in October and early November, but growth in most areas of the District has plateaued. On the commercial side, several large regional banks described loan demand as flat to slightly down. Most of the recent activity has been driven by mergers and acquisitions, with little currently going to new plant and equipment purchases. However, some increase in inventory financing was also noted. On the consumer side, lending activity was still increasing, but at a slower pace than two months ago. Several medium-sized banks reported that home equity and home improvement lending was accounting for much of their activity. However, several area bankers cited lengthening terms on auto loans and less equity being put into loan transactions as an indication that consumers were getting stretched out. A consumer finance institution reported a rise in revolving credit balances, which also was interpreted as a potential sign of an increasingly debt- constrained consumer. However, this contact emphasized that overall credit quality in the Midwest remained very good. Several financial institutions reported some tightening of standards, but also indicated that much less was required in their Midwest markets. Labor Markets The District? s labor markets remained very tight in October and early November, with shortages in some sectors becoming particularly acute. Retailers have been finding it especially difficult to attract holiday help this year. A recent direct-mail promotion in Michigan advertising a retail "jobs fair" received a minuscule one percent response rate. Retailers in the state have teamed up with the state employment agency in a promotional effort to recruit seasonal workers. In addition, a temporary help agency in one of the District? s large metro areas reported that orders were already coming in for tax help (accountants, business analysts, etc.) in mid-November, a month earlier than in past years. Perhaps because of historically low unemployment rates, most sectors? job growth was well below the national average (retail trades being an exception). Construction employment remained strong, while home builders in several areas reported that shortages of skilled labor persisted. Manufacturing employment levels continued a pattern of bouncing up and down slightly from month to month, with no trend evident in either direction. However, a national survey of hiring plans indicated that more manufacturers in the Midwest plan to increase their payrolls in the first quarter of 1997 than was reported a year ago. A contact at a national temporary help agency reported that margins were being squeezed in the Midwest due to demands for higher wages from workers and lower prices from clients.