As winter sets in, the Ninth District continues to enjoy moderate economic growth with few problem areas. Unemployment remains low, and indications of very tight labor markets are widespread. In spite of reports of labor market tightness and of some wage increases, there are few reports of price increases for raw materials, consumer goods or services. Construction is brisk in many areas. Iron mining and oil drilling are very strong and paper production displays some signs of recovery from the slump experienced over the last year. Retail sales of general merchandise apparently are picking up, and increased strength in vehicle sales continues. The 1996 crop was excellent in most respects, the profitability of livestock production has recovered somewhat, and farmers reportedly are increasing their spending on household and capital items. Manufacturing shows moderate growth. Tourism is the weakest sector, continuing a pattern set earlier in 1996. Employment, Wages, and Prices "Stores shop for workers," headlined a South Dakota news article describing the extra efforts retailers are making to secure needed seasonal workers in an extremely tight labor market. Labor scarcity continues as the most-cited problem confronting businesses in the district. Reports of increases in pay or benefits to attract entry-level workers or skilled technical specialists remain frequent, but many employers say there is no generalized upward pressure on compensation. Notwithstanding reports of compensation increases for entry-level and certain specialist employees, there are few reports of increases in the prices for goods and services. Petroleum products are one exception. Increased fuel prices are cited as a major cost increase for trucking firms and a Minnesota-based airline. One Minnesota chemical product manufacturer cites increases in the cost of all chemicals derived from petroleum or natural gas or whose production is energy intensive. At the consumer level, milk prices increased sharply from late September into November, but farm level milk prices were falling sharply in late November, and retail prices are expected to follow shortly. Construction and Real Estate "There are quite a few new motels going up in Sioux Falls." "The 'nuclear winter' is over in downtown St. Paul commercial real estate market." "Construction in western Wisconsin has been at record levels for six months." "Twin Cities building permits up 15 percent from a year ago." Reports such as this are widespread, revealing a construction and real estate sector that still has stamina after four years of expansion. The strength is broad-based across residential, commercial, light industrial and public infrastructure projects. Regionally, there are some reports of a slowing pace of residential construction in western Montana and eastern North Dakota, areas that had been strong for three years. Realtors in Minneapolis-St. Paul report good business for both residential and commercial property. Natural Resource Industries Iron ore mining and oil drilling continue at the brisk pace that has prevailed for several months, and industry spokespersons expect that pace to continue into 1997. An advisory council member from Michigan's Upper Peninsula describes increased production at a paper mill in his area. Other paper industry contacts also describe some expansion of output, but production has not returned to the high levels experienced two years ago. Building board producers in the eastern portion of the district continue producing near capacity. One exception to this pattern of strong activity in natural resources industries is traditional sawmills in western South Dakota and Montana, where output reportedly is stagnant or declining, largely due to reduced federal timber sales. Environmental concerns have blocked the partial reopening of a Michigan copper mine closed last year. Manufacturing "Sales are really pretty good, a bit slow in the summer, but getting better steadily in the fall," says one Minnesota electronics manufacturer. "We are seeing a lot of small factories coming in, mostly metal fabrication," says a utility manager from Michigan's Upper Peninsula. On the whole, manufacturing in the Ninth District appears healthy, with good orders and growing output, but with few bottlenecks or input shortages. Contacts report generally normal inventories and no delays or difficulties in securing raw materials. Agriculture "Prices are somewhat better than we had expected," comments a South Dakota rancher who believes that the price trough of the beef cycle was passed last spring and that both fat and feeder cattle prices will trend upward in 1997. Higher prices for feeder cattle are due in part to lower feed costs as favorable grain yields have put downward pressure on prices. Grain producers generally have completed harvesting in most areas, and yields were excellent and better than had been expected through the growing season. Winter wheat seeded in South Dakota and Montana is generally in good condition. But the late harvest and early onset of very cold weather prevented much fall tillage, and farmers in Wisconsin, Minnesota and South Dakota will have to rush to catch up next spring. Overall production of sugar beets and potatoes in North Dakota and northwest Minnesota was also good. Consumer Spending There are some indications that consumer spending has increased in late fall and early winter. Vehicle sales are described as good in many areas, with sales of pickup trucks reportedly very robust in North Dakota, South Dakota and much of Minnesota. A large national retailer based in Minnesota reported improved earnings for the third quarter compared to somewhat sluggish performance earlier in 1996. A regional department store chain also describes improved sales in October and November. Reports from advisory council members around the district indicate general optimism among retailers in regard to the holiday season. Some sources indicate sluggish sales of major appliances, but say that sales of apparel and consumer electronics are stronger than in the first two quarters. Tourism and Recreation "Tourism has been down 11 percent this year," reports a motel owner from Rapid City, S.D. He is echoed by sources in other regions, who sketch a general pattern of lackluster tourist and recreation business continuing through the year. Western Wisconsin, where tourism has grown to match that of better-known scenic areas of the state, is one exception. The pheasant hunting season in South Dakota was about even with 1995. Early snow in northern areas has been encouraging to businesses serving cross-country skiers and snowmobilers.