Fifth District economic activity expanded at a slightly faster rate in the last six weeks, although the retail and housing sectors showed signs of slower growth. Manufacturing shipments expanded somewhat faster, and the service sector grew more quickly. Tourism improved, spurred largely by a recovery in the coastal areas. Loan activity edged up, and state tax revenues accelerated modestly. Tight labor markets and wage pressures persisted, but contacts noted only modest price pressures. The commercial real estate market continued to strengthen at a healthy pace, and fall harvesting and planting activity picked up in agriculture. Retail The pace of activity in the retail sector moderated in October. District retailers reported that sales grew more slowly and that shopper traffic and big-ticket sales declined. Employment fell slightly, but wage growth accelerated. Retailers continued to indicate that the federal minimum wage increase was leading them to reduce their workforce. Respondents noted that retail prices rose more slowly in October. Contacts continued to expect slightly higher prices and modestly lower demand for their products over the next six months. Services Service sector activity expanded at a faster rate in October as revenues, average wages, and employment grew more rapidly than in September. Several contacts to a survey noted that the minimum wage hike would cause them to trim employment in coming months. Service prices rose more slowly in October, and respondents expected larger price increases and greater product demand over the next six months. Manufacturing Growth in the manufacturing sector increased slightly in October. Respondents to a survey indicated that, compared to September, shipments edged higher and new orders strengthened somewhat. Employment growth changed little, and contacts indicated that labor shortages were somewhat more widespread. Several firms reported that they had difficulty finding workers to replace those lost through normal attrition. Manufacturers indicated that prices for finished goods and raw materials grew at slightly faster rates than in September. However, some textile and primary metal manufacturers reported that foreign competition, aided by a strong dollar, caused them to lower their prices. Respondents continued to expect finished goods and raw materials prices to rise slightly during the next six months. Tourism Tourist activity rebounded in coastal areas, and continued to show strength at mountain resorts in October. A Virginia Beach hotelier noted that his business improved from last year, when federal furloughs hampered tourism. A respondent from a popular mountain resort in Virginia stated that tourist spending in October surpassed the levels of previous years and remained strong during early November. Contacts reported that fall bookings were about the same as those of last year. Port Activity Representatives at District ports indicated that import and export levels were higher in October than in September. Most port contacts expected import levels to rise during the next six months, but expected little change in exports. Temporary Employment Reports of strong demand for contingent workers persisted, and agencies indicated that employers were now seeking workers across a broader range of job categories and skill levels. Contacts to a phone survey noted that wage pressures were more pronounced than in September. Respondents indicated that it had become increasingly difficult to find "decent" help, even with offers of higher wages. Finance District banks reported steady consumer lending and modest gains in commercial and mortgage lending. An increase in company acquisitions pushed commercial loan demand higher. Lower interest rates led many borrowers to refinance their home loans. Several contacts attributed the increase in refinancings to homeowners switching from adjustable-rate to fixed-rate mortgages. One respondent reported that fixed-rate mortgages now represented three-quarters of his lending activity, up from one half. Lenders faced increased nonbank competition for consumer financing; one respondent said that she couldn't match the low interest rates offered by auto dealers. Residential Real Estate Residential real estate activity fell slightly during October and early November. Customer traffic, as well as home sales and prices, declined; housing starts and permits were steady. Many contacts across the District reported that lumber prices soared. Some builders in competitive markets like the Washington, D.C., suburbs reported that these higher prices squeezed their profit margins. In less competitive areas such as Charlottesville, Va., builders indicated that they were able to pass the price increases through to homebuyers. Builders continued to report skilled-labor shortages. Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate activity accelerated in recent weeks. Office, industrial, and retail leasing activity remained at a high level, except in North Carolina, where activity escalated. One commercial leasing agent there reported that business was "incredible." Commercial vacancy rates declined further, and rents rose throughout most of the District. The availability of prime office space continued to tighten. Many contacts reported increases in speculative office construction in their areas. State Revenues State tax collections generally increased faster in October than in September. Individual estimated payments rose at a faster rate and real estate recordation tax receipts increased in all jurisdictions except West Virginia. In contrast, sales tax collections decreased and withholding and corporate income tax collections grew more slowly. Agriculture The pace of harvesting and small grain planting activity picked up during late October and early November. In the Carolinas and Maryland, drier weather allowed farmers to get planting and harvesting activity back on schedule. However, in Virginia and West Virginia, harvesting progress continued to lag somewhat behind the five-year averages because of unfavorable weather.