Contacts around the Sixth District suggest that economic activity continues its moderate rate of growth on net, with signs of slowing apparent in some sectors. Retail sales continued to exceed year-ago levels in both October and early November, although retailers noted weaker sales in the latter period. District manufacturers indicate that production has recently weakened slightly, while their outlook has improved somewhat. Reports on tourism within the region remain overwhelmingly positive. Real estate contacts report that home sales and construction activity slowed in October. However, the single-family market continues to operate at a healthy level, and commercial real estate markets continue to improve throughout the District, with falling vacancy rates and robust levels of construction in many areas. Overall loan demand is characterized as moderate. Labor shortages persist in many areas of the District, but wage pressures reportedly remain subdued. Consumer Spending According to District retailers, sales in October and early November exceeded year-ago levels. Sales increases were stronger in October than in early November on a year-over-year basis. More than half of the retailers contacted said that recent sales had met their expectations, and most retailers report that inventories are on target. Apparel, cosmetics, shoes, and home-related products are among the top sellers within the region. Looking toward holiday sales, most retailers anticipate a slight increase over last year, while the remainder expect a more significant increase. Manufacturing Since the last Beige Book, an increasing number of factories are reporting decreasing production and shipments. However, more reported expectations for improved future business activity, and most manufacturers expect to maintain current employment levels for at least the next few months. Contacts in the food, paper, and lumber and wood industries report slowing activity. Although weakness persists for the region? s apparel producers, one contact says that there have been fewer reports of shrinking employment rolls in the industry, perhaps indicating that a large portion of weaker firms have been culled out. More positively, orders for industrial machinery and electronic equipment have recently picked up at regional plants, and some Louisiana chemical plants are reportedly running at 100 percent capacity and are announcing expansions. Recently announced additions to Tennessee? s automotive industry are expected to further industrial growth in the state. Tourism and Business Travel New attractions, expanded airline service, and strong international traffic are resulting in filled theme parks and high hotel occupancies in central Florida. Resorts on Florida? s Gulf Coast and in south Florida report strong winter bookings, and spokesmen are confident that the trend will carry over into next year. Recently renovated hotels and recognition of the trendy South Beach area are boosting tourism to the southern part of the state; European and South American tourism is up from a year ago in Miami. Strong 1997 booking numbers show that Atlanta? s convention business will bounce back from a pre-Olympic slowdown. Although the end of the year is traditionally slow for the Gulf Coast? s casino business, spokesmen expect 1997 to usher in the fruits of large construction projects and new jet services. Construction According to real estate contacts, the single-family housing market slowed in October from the previous month. On a year-over-year basis, home sales were mixed within the District in both October and early November, while construction was generally characterized as flat. Despite the overall slowdown in the market, home sales and construction remain relatively high. Inventories of new and existing homes are said to be adequate for expected sales throughout most of the District. Most builders anticipate no change in the level of construction through the end of the year, while Realtors? expectations are more mixed. Contacts from across the District generally report that commercial real estate markets continue to improve. Declining vacancy rates and higher rental rates continue to propel new industrial, office, and retail development. Although most commercial projects continue to be build-to-suits, several speculative projects are underway, and more are anticipated this year and next. Overall, the multifamily sector remains healthy; however, some markets have weakened. Financial Most contacts in the banking industry report a moderate level of loan demand. Consumer lending remains subdued with some strength in automobile financing reported. Commercial lending remains mixed throughout the District. Mortgage lending is said to be flat. There are also continuing reports of some softness in loan quality. Wages and Prices Reports of increasing wages are infrequent in the region at this time. However, reports of labor shortages in parts of the District remain common. Workers from overseas are being recruited and imported into some parts of the region to fill job vacancies. Craftsmen are in especially short supply. Contacts continue to report that strong demand for management talent is being met with benefits and fringes instead of higher salaries. Materials prices have increased slightly recently and are expected to continue to escalate moderately, but most contacts expect prices received for finished products to weaken or be unchanged over the next few months.