The district economy continued to grow moderately during the past month. Retail sales increased, manufacturing and construction activity remained fairly strong, and energy activity improved somewhat. In the farm economy, an excellent harvest has brightened income prospects for crop producers, and higher cattle prices have restored profits to cattle feeders. Labor markets remained tight in much of the district, prompting a number of firms to increase wages. Prices rose for some materials used in manufacturing and construction. At the retail level, prices generally held steady. Retail Sales Retailers report sales increased last month and were moderately higher than a year ago. Sales of apparel and electronics were brisk. Most retailers expect a strong Christmas season even though the late Thanksgiving may hurt sales somewhat. Retailers were generally satisfied with their inventory levels. Automobile dealers report sales were unchanged last month and expect sales to increase somewhat the rest of the year. Dealers have been expanding inventories, and some still do not have as many light trucks and sport utility vehicles as they would like. Manufacturing Manufacturers continued to operate last month at moderately high levels of capacity. Manufacturing materials were generally available, with lead times either holding steady or declining. Most manufacturers were satisfied with their inventory levels. A quarterly survey of district manufacturers indicated that production, shipments, and new orders all increased modestly from September to October. Housing Builders report housing starts slowed last month yet remained higher than a year ago. Starts of both single-family homes and multifamily units declined. Builders expect little change in construction activity, except for the normal seasonal slowdown toward the end of the year. Sales of new homes also fell last month. Most building materials were readily available, and delivery times were normal. Mortgage lenders report slightly higher demand last month and expect little change the rest of the year. Banking Bankers report that loans remained unchanged and deposits edged up last month, slightly reducing loan-to-deposit ratios. Home mortgage loans, home equity loans, and commercial real estate loans edged up, while residential construction loans fell slightly. Demand deposits, NOW accounts, and money market deposit accounts all rose slightly, outweighing declines in large CDs and small time and savings deposits. All respondent banks held their prime lending rates steady last month and expect to leave rates unchanged in the near term. Banks also held their consumer lending rates steady and plan no changes in the near future. A greater fraction of banks than in past months tightened their lending standards. Energy District energy activity improved somewhat last month, helped by higher prices for oil and natural gas. The district rig count rose 2.4 percent in October and was above its year-ago level. Agriculture District farmers are just completing an excellent fall harvest, including the largest district corn crop in a decade. The newly planted winter wheat crop is in very good condition and should provide plenty of wheat pasture for cattle, in sharp contrast with a year ago when there was virtually none. Prices for fed cattle have jumped well above breakeven levels recently due to a seasonal decline in beef supplies. The higher prices brought a huge inflow of cattle into district feedlots during the past two months. Many industry analysts expect prices to soften when the cattle now in feedlots are slaughtered early next year. In contrast to cattle feeders, ranchers were still posting losses and continued to reduce the size of their herds. The bumper harvest and record grain prices earlier in the year have improved the overall quality of farm loan portfolios at district banks. The quality of some cattle loans has declined somewhat after sizable losses in the cattle industry. Most cattle producers still have strong balance sheets, however, and an uptick in the demand for feeder cattle loans suggests producers are gearing up to take advantage of the recent increase in cattle prices. Wages and Prices Labor markets were still tight last month, and there was some continued evidence of wage pressures. Manufacturers report skilled and unskilled workers remained in short supply, and a number of companies say they have responded by increasing wages. Prices held steady at the retail level and rose for some manufacturing and construction materials. Retailers expect no major price changes in coming months.