The Eighth District economy continues to grow at a steady pace. District retailers report that sales were up about 4 percent in September and October over one year ago, and most are expecting a strong holiday season. Auto sales were mixed over the same two-month period, but most contacts expect a pickup through year? s end. Most other contacts report continued growth in their industries, although some have noted a slowing in this growth. Labor markets remain tight around the District. Materials prices are generally stable to up slightly. Real estate markets are strong in most parts of the District. Loan demand, particularly for business loans, remains relatively strong. Farmers appear to have had a good crop year, with prices and yields generally above average. Consumer Spending Retail contacts report that September and October sales were up about 4 percent from one year ago. Toys, home improvement products and women? s apparel were the biggest sellers. Contacts also report that their inventories are at desired levels. Most are expecting a strong holiday season, with electronic products, toys and jewelry leading the way. Moreover, most believe that the first quarter of 1997 will yield better sales than a year earlier. Car dealers were split in their sales reports for September and October. While about half saw sales increase about 8 percent over the year before, the rest saw sales decline about 10 percent. Rebates have not been used any more than usual to move product. Most dealers are optimistic about sales prospects through year? s end, and are even more upbeat about the first quarter of 1997. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Most District contacts continue to report growth at their firms and in their industries. Hiring and keeping qualified workers because of tight labor markets remains a big concern for many companies. One contact remarked that firms are having particular difficulty finding qualified workers because the skills needed today are much more specialized than they were in the early 1970s, when similar unemployment rates existed. Providers of transportation and delivery services are growing in the District, with both railroads and trucking firms adding workers. Trucking companies report that there is currently a severe shortage of drivers. The food and beverage industries also report sales and employment growth, with poultry processing firms adding workers and a beverage firm reporting sales increases over last year. Other firms, while still reporting growth, have recently noted a slowing in this growth. A chemicals company reports that sales are still above last year? s, but they are not as robust as they were a few months ago. Die cast producers have also seen a slowing in their volumes. A contact in the scrap metal industry has noted a slowdown in the steel industry? s rate of inventory increase, perhaps portending a downturn in that industry. The District? s apparel industry is still contracting, with two more plants closing because of foreign competition. About 750 jobs will be lost in total. Prices Most firms report that materials prices have been stable to up somewhat, but any increases have generally not been passed along to customers. Lumber, aluminum and natural gas prices, in particular, are reportedly higher, while scrap steel prices have recently fallen. Contacts also report nominal wage increases of between 3 percent and 4 percent for the coming year. One contact mentioned that some large customers are requesting rebates from suppliers in lieu of lower prices for large contracts. Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate markets are strong in most parts of the District. Prices for both new and resale houses are rising. Monthly residential construction permits in September were up in only five of the District? s 12 metropolitan areas. On a year-to-date basis, permits were up in nine metro areas. The three areas that were below last year? s levels are all in the southern part of the District. Nonresidential construction is particularly strong in the southern part of the District, especially in northwest Mississippi. Parts of southern Illinois and western Kentucky are also seeing strong commercial construction. Banking and Finance Bankers across the District report continued strength in loan demand, especially on the commercial side. Credit is described as plentiful by most District contacts. Bankers in St. Louis and central Kentucky report aggressive competition for business loan customers. Some bankers have noted a softening of consumer loan demand and report being much more cautious in extending consumer credit in response to rising personal bankruptcies and consumer debt loads. Agriculture and Natural Resources With the fall harvest winding down, substantial rainfall during early- to mid- November in several parts of the District slowed the pace of activity to a near standstill. Initial reports suggest that yields were generally above average and, in some instances, outstanding for most crops. For example, Arkansas rice farmers expect yields to surpass the all-time high set just two years ago. Southern pine lumber mills report that orders on a year-to-date basis continue to outstrip last year? s pace by a little more than 7 percent.