Summary Although the Second District's economy continued to expand through June and early July, a few indications of some future slowing appeared. Consumer spending, production and commercial and residential construction were all strong. But higher interest rates on real estate loans have begun to discourage some marginal homebuyers, and rising vacancy rates have caused some concern among commercial developers bringing new office space on line. In the agricultural sector, weather conditions have made the outlook discouraging. Consumer Spending Retail sales in the Second District continued to exceed expectations of local merchants during the month of June, though posted increases of between 10 and 20 percent over year-earlier levels were generally lower than those recorded for the previous two months. For July, estimates of sales increases varied widely among informants. One retailer in New Jersey reported only a five percent increase in sales over last year, while another chain with mostly suburban outlets reported a gain of twenty-eight percent. By mid-July retailers' inventories had generally fallen to planned levels, stores having reduced the somewhat excessive stocks of May and June. Business Activity The expansion in the District's business activity quickened somewhat in recent weeks. A higher percentage of purchasing managers reported an improvement in new orders, particularly in the Rochester area, and the percentage reporting lower orders declined. Inventories generally remained unchanged from the satisfactory levels of a month earlier. Employment gains were registered in most of the District's labor market areas in June, and the number of nonfarm jobs in New York State climbed above 7.5 million for the first time. The improvement occurred across all industry categories but was most heavily concentrated among wholesale and retail trade establishments. Additional employment data suggest that the reported June increase in New York State unemployment from 6.7 to 7.1 percent was probably a statistical aberration as was New York City's increase from 7 to 10 percent. Financial Sector Although New York money center banks typically have offered higher rates on unregulated consumer deposits than the national average, a rate war has broken out recently among these large New York City banks. By July 25 the average yield on six-month deposits was up 132 basis points from five weeks earlier, compared with 54 basis points nationally. Even with this run-up in yields at money center banks, there has not been any significant loss of consumer deposits at small institutions is the District. Construction and Real Estate The strength of the housing market is beginning to diminish in most parts of the District. Higher mortgage rates have been depressing traffic especially among first-time buyers and for lower- and middle-priced houses. Homebuilders have experienced little adverse impact at present, but the outlook for construction for spring deliveries is increasingly uncertain. Concerns about interest rates and growing inventories of vacant space are also beginning to affect commercial real estate markets. In lower Manhattan both supply and vacancy rates are increasing rapidly due to the completion of seven million square feet of office space. On Long Island too, a sizable amount of space is available or under construction. Agriculture The agricultural picture has been adversely affected by weather conditions. Excessive rainfall and unusually cool weather delayed spring plating in mach of the District, and lower vegetable and other crop production is likely this year. Dairy farmers report that milk prices have been relatively flat, while costs continue to rise. Some increased demand for processed dairy products has occurred, however.