Overview Economic activity in the Tenth District continues to grow moderately. and price increases are expected to be relatively small for the rest of the year. Inventories of input materials are satisfactory but retail inventories are somewhat high. No major inventory adjustments are anticipated, however. Higher interest rates are restraining mortgage commitments, as well as housing starts and sales. Automobile dealers are also concerned about the impact of rising rates on new car sales. Loan demand has increased somewhat at commercial banks, in spite of increases in the prime rate and in consumer loan rates. The district wheat crop was generally good, and fall-harvested crops are also in good condition. Retail Trade Retailers report that year-to-date sales are slightly ahead of a year ago, but results for the last three months are mixed. Sales of home furnishings and mens and women's apparel have been particularly strong. Inventories are generally reported to be somewhat high, but little adjustment is anticipated in the near future. Clearance sales are occurring on schedule. Retail prices have remained approximately constant during the last three months and are not expected to change significantly before the first of the year. Expectations of sales for the remainder of the year are mixed, but no large changes from current rates are predicted. Automobile Sales Automobile dealers throughout the Tenth District continue to report improved sales in 1984 relative to 1983. Credit market conditions are satisfactory and financing is available for both floorplanning and customer purchases. Host dealers express concern over rising interest rates, indicating that further rate increases would restrict sales. Attempts to expand inventories have been frustrated by a lack of availability, with highly demanded models in short supply. Dealers anticipate strong sales for the balance of 1964. Purchasing Agents Over half of the purchasing agents contacted report input price increases over the past year ranging from 1 to 8 percent. Increases were concentrated in the second quarter of this year. Expectations of price movements for the remainder of 1984 vary by industry, with stable or falling prices expected by several soft goods producers. Some respondents report difficulties in getting materials because of strikes at suppliers and heavy demands placed on suppliers by the automobile industry. Most respondents are satisfied with their materials inventory levels, having slightly trimmed or maintained these inventories recently. Most intend to maintain or slightly trim inventories the rest of the year. None of the respondents report bottlenecks in skilled labor or plant capacity. Housing Activity and Finance Homebuilders in the Tenth District report mixed results when housing starts in the first half of 1984 are compared to year-ago levels. Starts of multi-family units are generally up, while starts of single family units vary across the district. Higher interest rates have slowed housing starts since early June and are expected to continue to do so through the remainder of the year. Sales of new homes are down from last year, with prices holding steady to slightly higher. Inventories of unsold homes vary considerably across the district. Building materials are in good supply at generally steady prices. Savings inflows at savings and loan associations are unchanged to slightly higher than a year ago, and are expected to remain steady throughout 1984. Mortgage demand has declined due to higher interest rates and is expected to soften further for the rest of the year. Fewer mortgage commitments are being made. Mortgage rates are expected to rise somewhat more in 1984. Banking Loan demand was moderately higher than last month at most Tenth District banks. At all of the banks surveyed, commercial and industrial loans and consumer loans were either flat or up slightly, while agriculture loans were either flat or down slightly. Residential and commercial real estate lending was considerably more variable, rising sharply at some respondents but falling or remaining unchanged at others. Total deposits were higher than last month at a narrow majority of the respondents. Most of the increases were in conventional NOW's, Super NOW's, and MMDA's, but some respondents reported weakness in these categories. The prime rate was 13 percent at most of the banks surveyed, up a half point over the previous month. Consumer lending rates were slightly higher at about half of the respondent banks and unchanged at the other half. Several respondents expect to raise their consumer lending rates in the near future. Agriculture The wheat crop in the Tenth District is generally good this year. Most wheat has been harvested, though rain has delayed cutting in Colorado. New Mexico and parts of Colorado report excellent crops, but production is lower than normal in Nebraska and dry conditions lowered production in parts of Oklahoma. Some farmers have sold enough wheat to cover immediate expenses, but are holding the rest of the crop. Producers are selling more wheat in Oklahoma, Missouri, and Nebraska than in other district states. Although some producers are actively selling harvested crops forward, there is not much use of forward selling or futures. The district's corn and milo crops are in generally good condition, though slightly behind in development. There are reports of localized hail damage, some of it heavy. The soybean crop is also in good condition but it, too, lags normal development. Moisture conditions are good to excellent in New Mexico, Colorado, and parts of Nebraska. The rest of the district reports dry conditions and some concern about the lack of rain. At the same time, land that was flooded earlier this spring did not dry out enough to be replanted, except in isolated higher areas.