Overview Economic activity is continuing to expand in most regions and industries, but at very different rates. Consumer spending is still providing much of the strength, particularly in the automotive sector, where vigorous activity is leading to supply constraints and buoying a variety of supplying industries. Construction activity has been mixed, with most regions showing continued strength in nonresidential building, but various degrees of slowing on the residential side. Foreign competition and slower housing construction are seen to be restraining activity among producers of building materials. Foreign competition is also being blamed for lagging demand in the textile and apparel, furniture, lumber, and primary metals industries. Inventories are generally near desired levels, and price increases remain moderate. Loan demand remains generally strong, with the exception of the residential mortgage component. Deposit behavior has been mixed, but, on balance, growth appears to have slowed, which has caused some institutions to increase their issuance of CD's. On the agricultural front, crop conditions appear generally improved, although trouble spots remain. Manufacturing and Industry Manufacturing activity is continuing to expand in most areas, but more slowly in several, and with actual declines in some industries. Apart from seasonal factors, the automobile industry and related industries are operating at high and increasing rates. Atlanta finds suppliers of the auto industry bringing long idle capacity back on line and struggling to keep up with demand. The paper-related industries are also near capacity according to Atlanta, Chicago, San Francisco, and Richmond, and high levels of activity are reported for the chemicals, construction equipment and electronic equipment industries in several districts. In contrast, Cleveland and San Francisco report declining activity in the steel industry due in part to increased steel imports. Foreign competition is also reported to be restricting activity in the textile, apparel, and lumber industries. Producers of building materials are facing weaker markets as housing activity softens, although Boston and Dallas find significant continuing strength in that sector. Consumer Spending Retail sales are still generally strong, although there are indications of weakness in some areas. Both Boston and San Francisco reported that sales accelerated in July, but Cleveland found some weakening in general merchandise sales, and Minneapolis reported spotty results in rural areas dependent on agriculture. Retail inventories have declined slightly overall and seem to be generally at comfortable levels. Automobile sales remain robust across the country. In lines other than automobiles, apparel was doing well in the Philadelphia, Richmond, and San Francisco Districts, and strength was also reported in sales of home entertainment electronics goods, furniture, and appliances. Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Richmond all reported mixed results at tourist and vacation sites in their districts. Some areas appeared to be meeting expectations, while others were having disappointing peak seasons. Construction Most districts report some degree of slowing in the residential sector, although Chicago found surprising stability, and in the St. Louis District backlogs of orders are continuing to support single- family construction. Where activity is slowing, recent increases in mortgage rates appear to be a principal factor. Also, several comments suggest that both borrowers and lenders are becoming disillusioned with adjustable rate mortgages. Nonresidential construction is apparently holding up well, with increased building reported in several districts. San Francisco reports that several metropolitan areas in the Twelfth District are "on the brink of a boom," and an increase in commercial construction is expected soon in downtown Chicago. New York, however, reports rising vacancy rates in office buildings in lower Manhattan and Long Island. Finance With the exception of residential mortgages, loan demand is continuing to make substantial year-over-year gains. Business and consumer loans are still rising strongly in most areas, although some banks in the Boston District reported a leveling off of loan demand, and Kansas City found loans flat to up slightly. Deposit growth has slowed in the Atlanta, Cleveland and San Francisco Districts, but remains steady in the Dallas. Minneapolis. and Philadelphia Districts. Agriculture Crop conditions have improved in recent weeks, although conditions remain poor in areas along the Gulf Coast, in central and southwest Texas, and in parts of California and New York. Kansas City reports generally good wheat, corn, milo, and soybean crops, with only isolated and relatively mild weather problems. Despite improvement in the near-term outlook, however, debt levels and falling land values continue to plague farmers.