Summary Business conditions continue to improve in the Seventh District, but the extent of the recovery has been less satisfactory than in the nation generally. Confidence of executives and consumers, overall, is at the highest level in several years. The strongest improvement has been in motor vehicles, where the outlook is clouded by complicated labor- management negotiations now in progress. Most producers of mechanical capital goods report gains over last year's severely depressed conditions, but the revival is far from satisfactory, especially in farm equipment. Export markets remain weak. Attempts to cut labor costs against union opposition have led to new confrontations, and threatened closings of additional factories and stores. Some electric utilities are under severe financial stress, mainly because of problems with nuclear plants. Retail sales continue at good levels, especially durables. Price inflation remains moderate. Except for some types of motor vehicles, there are no significant supply restraints. Paper and paperboard producers are operating near capacity. Housing activity, increasingly, is restricted by high interest rates and availability of credit. Nonresidential building prospects, in contrast, have strengthened. Both residential and nonresidential construction activity are far below levels of the late 1970s. Crop conditions generally are favorable, but many farmers are burdened by debts incurred in earlier years and are holding back on continents. Farmland values have declined further. District Versus Nation Attitudes expressed at gatherings of financial and business executives in the Seventh District seldom reflect the felicitous aura of most evaluations from New York and Washington. Prosperity has not returned to the Midwest. The best evidence is found in employment data. The rise in payroll employment since late 1982 has been only half as great in the five-state area as in the nation. Manufacturing employment has increased somewhat faster here than in the U.S. in this period (largely because of motor vehicles), but remains 20 percent below the levels of five years ago. Non- manufacturing employment has increased only slightly here and remains below the levels of 1979, in contrast to substantial gains in the U.S. Comparisons of changes in income and retail sales with the nation reflect these trends. Reasons for District Problems Reasons for the weaker situation in this region relative to the nation are varied and complex. No relief is in sight. Most important has been the limited recovery in capital goods, including machine tools and equipment for construction, agriculture, mining, and railroads. Second, aside from weak domestic markets, durable goods producers have been especially hard hit by declines in exports and by increases in imports. Third, continued financial stress seriously depresses agriculture and businesses that serve farmers. Fourth, construction activity remains far below earlier peaks. Fifth, many District financial institutions, public utilities, state and local governments, and hospitals have been forced to curtail employment. Finally, most areas in the region have seen slow growth or declines in population, which both reflect and contribute to the problems described above. Labor Negotiations Labor-management negotiations over adjustments in labor costs have led to confrontations, sometimes bitter, in a variety of industries, including food retailing, machine tools, meatpacking, and state/local government. Some unions have voted heavily against proposals to cut wages and tighten work rules, even with the understanding that their facilities will close. In many cases, the main issue is a lower starting wage with freedom to use more part-time workers. A strike is expected in coal mining in October and utilities are increasing coal stocks. By far the most important negotiations, directly involving 500,000 workers, began in the auto industry on July 23. Unions want higher wages now and in subsequent years, larger pensions, job guarantees, and a reversal of concessions agreed to in early 1982. Managements wish to hold down such claims and also limit health benefits. Companies are making record profits; the UAW has a record strike fund. Managements threaten to increase foreign sourcing of components if a satisfactory agreement is not reached. Detroit sources describe both sides as outwardly optimistic on a settlement, but "negotiations will be the most complicated and difficult in their 47-year history." The outcome will be anxiously awaited throughout industry because the auto agreement usually has set the tone for subsequent negotiations in farm and construction equipment, rubber, and steel. Housing Residential construction has held up surprisingly well so far, but a decline appears to be imminent. In the first half of 1984, housing permits in the five-state region were up 25 percent from 1983, and double the 1982 level. However, permits were less than half as great as in 1977 or 1978. Nationally, permits this year have about equaled the strong performance of 1977-78. Current effective mortgage rates approaching 15 percent are barring many potential buyers, especially second-time buyers. Recent levels of housing activity have been aided by extensive use of ARMs. But high default rates on ARMs, double that on fixed rate loans according to a major insurer, have caused lenders and borrowers to re-examine this device. Private mortgage insurers headquartered in this region (which depends heavily on private insurance) wish to raise their rates on ARMs by 40-50 percent. Nonresidential Construction High financing charges do not appear to be slowing the recovery in nonresidential building. One analyst lists 27 large, new commercial buildings planned for the Chicago area, mainly downtown. Substantial office vacancies still exist, but leasing volume has increased and large blocks of prime space (50-100,000 square feet) are relatively scarce. Only one large, new building will open in downtown Chicago in 1985. Manufacturing building contracts also have increased from a very low base. Store construction has strengthened, but is concentrated in individual buildings or small shopping centers. Dodge nonresidential construction contracts (in square feet) in the first half of 1984 were double the level of 1982 in the five-state area. However, they were only half as great as in 1978. For the nation, first half volume was within 10 percent of 1978. Agriculture District farmland values continue to edge downward, reflecting low farm sector earnings of recent years and lackluster earnings prospects for the near future. Our latest survey of agricultural bankers indicates that District farmland values declined 1 percent in the second quarter and 7.5 percent in the year ending July 1. District farmland values are down about 20 percent from the 1981 peak and are near the levels of late l978. Declines in the Midwest have been greater than in most other regions. Electric Power The decision, announced July 16, to halt construction of a long-delayed nuclear power plant in Michigan has far-reaching consequences. Over 6,000 construction workers and technicians apparently will be dismissed. If the utility cannot raise rates sufficiently to offset an apparent $4 billion write-off, it may be forced into bankruptcy. This could threaten both its ability to supply adequate electric power and to purchase natural gas reserves needed for the winter. Ironically, its sales of power are up strongly this year to residential, commercial, and, especially, industrial customers for the first time in five years.