Summary The economic outlook has deteriorated further in recent weeks because of the surge in crude oil prices, but Fourth District respondents do not believe this District is in a recession. Near- term prospects for inflation have worsened. Non-automotive retail sales have weakened but auto sales have been better than-expected since the oil-price shock. Growth in the District's economy continues to be supported by manufacturing, but housing is weakening more than usual for this time of the year. Loan activity remains weak, and some lenders believe that credit tightness is now affecting some lending in the District. The National Economy A stronger-than-expected surge in crude oil prices has contributed to a further deterioration in the near-term outlook for the economy. About three-fourths of a panel of forecasters now expect at least two successive quarterly declines in real GNP beginning this quarter, compared with about one-third only six weeks ago. Others still expect sustained growth in real GNP at annual rates of about l percent to 2 percent this quarter and next. Oil and Inflation The downward revisions in output projections is accompanied by a step-up in expected inflation rates. Many respondents attribute their higher inflation forecast to higher crude oil prices than was assumed in their forecasts of six weeks ago. The rise in oil prices into a $35 to $40 per barrel range was judged to be based on fears of further disruptions in oil supply. Respondents generally assume the price of crude oil to settle in a $25 to $30 range next quarter. The surge in the price indexes is still expected to be short-lived, moderating to a 4 percent to 5 percent rate by next spring. Regional Economy District respondents generally believe that the economy in the Fourth District is not in a recession, but they are cautious about short-term prospects. They are encouraged by the steadiness in manufacturing output and employment in the District. Some others are concerned over weaknesses in retail sales and construction, and a below-expected level of activity even before the oil-price shock. In Ohio, nonfarm employment in September virtually matched the latest peak in August, and manufacturing employment, unchanged in the last three months, was only slightly below its peak in early 1989. The unemployment rate in September was 5.2 percent, and for the third quarter, the average rate moved slightly below the national average. Some public officials are concerned that Ohio could have a budget deficit of as much as $300 million for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1991, partly because of a revenue shortfall. Consumer Spending Retail sales since the oil-price shock have been mixed but generally better than widely expected, especially for new cars. Some retailers report sales fell in the last two months because of uncertainties over an auto strike and the Gulf situation. Expected sales during the late fall and the holiday season are being scaled down from pre- oil shock forecasts. Auto dealers in the District report, however, that new car sales in September were slightly better than in August, probably because of year-end clearance of 1990 models, and they also report rather "good" sales of 1991 models. Dealers do not note a marked shift in consumer buying toward more fuel-efficient cars. Orders for 1990:IVQ are reported to be at least equal to 1989:IVQ, and many anticipate order increases in late November and December for 1991:IQ delivery. Manufacturing Production last quarter held up a little better than many respondents expected, supported especially by the automotive, machinery, and steel industries. Nonetheless many respondents appear skeptical over near-term prospects. Auto production plans for the fourth quarter are being sustained at nearly the late July projections, according to some auto makers. Exports are still a major source of growth for capital goods, although some export- sensitive producers report a slump in export orders in August and September. Some producers also note a pickup in cancellations and deferrals, but not to the extent of suggesting a scaling back of capital spending plans. Despite some recent buildup, inventories are still believed to be at desired levels, and manufacturers do not plan to build inventories as a price hedge. Steel operations have continued at nearly 85 percent of capacity, supported by a continued decline in steel imports, and strength in machinery and agricultural industries that have compensated for softness in autos and appliances. Domestic production has also been supported by a strike in the steel industry in Canada. Construction Homebuilders in northern Ohio report a slowdown in building that is more than seasonal. They attribute this partly to a lack of buyers. Small builders of single-family units apparently still have access to borrowed funds, but builders of multi-family units complain about difficulties in obtaining financing. Home sales in the $150,000 to $200,000 price range have slowed, but are still generally strong in the $250,000 to $400,000 range, although some builders and lenders report a virtual standstill in activity in some high-growth suburban communities. In general, sales of existing homes averaged about 95 percent of the asking price in September, which has hardly changed from a year earlier. Financial Developments Loan activity is weak across the board, and has softened further since early August, according to some bankers. The reduced pace of loans reflects a sluggish economy and tight lending policies. Loan delinquencies and nonperforming loans have risen at several banks, and a few bankers now perceive a credit squeeze having spread to small businesses and consumers in the District. Some ascribe credit growth restraint to a need to meet higher capital requirements.