Overview District economic activity generally weakened further in early October, and the attitudes of businesses about the near-term outlook became more pessimistic. Retail and manufacturing activity slowed. Starts of new commercial buildings were virtually at a standstill. Loan demand was weaker at District financial institutions, but interest rates were little changed. On the brighter side, export volume rose at District ports and the District's farming sector was generally healthy. Retail Trade Responses to our regular mail survey of retailers suggested that retail sales, including sales of big ticket items, declined in early October. Most stores also reported declines in shopper traffic and many retailers indicated that they had trimmed employment. Department store executives reported that they had reduced their sales projections and expected to hold down their employment and advertising this Christmas season. These retailers and others surveyed were pessimistic about the outlook for their businesses and local economies, and the national economy. Manufacturing Our regular mail survey of manufacturers showed decreases in their shipments, orders, and employment in early October. Nearly half of the respondents identified poor sales as their most important business problem. Rising crude oil prices apparently contributed to sales declines; about three-fifths of the respondents said that their sales were adversely affected by the boost in oil prices. Most surveyed manufacturers reported higher raw materials costs, but few had raised the prices of their finished products. Their inventories of materials and finished goods had changed little from the levels reported in our previous survey in August. Manufacturers' assessments of current business conditions and their outlook for the near term were more pessimistic in October than in August. Most respondents believed that economic conditions in their local areas and in the nation had weakened in early October; only a few expected business conditions to improve in the next six months. Coal District coal production and prices have remained relatively stable, unlike in earlier periods when they rose sharply along with the price of oil. The reason for this stability, according to our contacts in southwest Virginia and West Virginia, was that most oil- burning electric utility companies converted to coal in the 1970s so that little additional conversion was now possible. Also, utility companies reportedly were heavily stockpiled with coal because the summer was not as hot as usual. Coal industry executives expect some upward pressure on coal prices, however, from increased export demand. At the port of Hampton Roads (Norfolk), coal exports were said to be near a record pace in September. Ports Reports received from District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads, showed that export volume rose from the prior month at all three ports, while import volume was generally unchanged. Also, port representatives continued to expect exports to grow faster than imports over the next six months. Nonresidential Construction Contacts in the commercial real estate and banking sectors indicated that high vacancy rates and tighter loan standards have virtually halted new construction starts in the District. According to managers of office buildings and industrial parks, projects now underway were generally funded by loan commitments made more than six months ago. Financial A telephone survey of District financial institutions indicated lower demand for consumer and commercial loans in early October than in September. Lenders attributed the weaker demand to uncertainty resulting from Mideast tensions, the lack of a Federal budget accord, and slower growth in the domestic economy. Nearly all lenders reported no change in their loan rates. Agriculture Preliminary results from a survey of District agricultural bankers suggested that the area farm economy was generally healthy going into the peak harvest season. Most bankers contacted reported that farmland values had risen this year in their areas, but only one in six expects further increases in the next three months. Funds available for agricultural loans were at normal or above-normal levels at 90 percent of the reporting institutions, and a similar proportion reported that agricultural loan repayment rates were normal or above-normal. Collateral requirements for farm loans, however, were higher than usual at about one-fourth of the banks. Heavy rainfall throughout the southern and western portions of the District delayed harvest activity somewhat, especially of soybeans, during the second week of October. Preliminary estimates indicate that soybean yields in the District may be somewhat lower than average due to a dry September.