Economic activity appears to have grown slowly in most Federal Reserve districts since early August, but seems to have declined somewhat in others. Many districts reported a weakening in business and consumer confidence. Retail sales, including new car sales, were sluggish or down in most of the country. Indicators of manufacturing activity were mixed to weaker. Commercial and residential construction declined, although sales of homes rose in some areas. Total loan demand at commercial banks was lackluster, and business lending decreased across the nation. In agriculture, crop yields and livestock prices were generally strong, although various factors detracted from farm sector conditions in some areas. With respect to energy, higher oil prices appeared to be stimulating oil drilling, although some shortages of skilled workers were reported. Retail Trade Retail activity apparently weakened in most of the nation. All districts except Chicago reported that sales grew more slowly or declined. Many noted slower sales of durable goods, particularly autos, and some indicated that retailers had laid off workers. Retailers generally believed their inventories were at satisfactory levels, although some had begun to trim their stocks. Most districts reported that retailers were generally pessimistic about their sales prospects in coming months. The retailers blamed lower consumer confidence brought on by greater uncertainty and higher fuel prices for the current and expected weakness in their sales. Some worried that they would have to discount prices significantly to move merchandise. Industrial Activity Conditions in the manufacturing sector apparently weakened somewhat. Chicago reported relatively strong activity, but most other districts gave mixed reports or indicated declines. Weakness was evident across most industries, although several districts reported boosts in energy- or defense-related production. Reports received from six districts indicated that, on balance, manufacturing employment declined. No district indicated serious manufacturer concern over inventory levels, although Philadelphia and Kansas City noted that producers were reducing inventories. Exports from the Richmond and Cleveland Districts rose but those from the Chicago and Boston Districts fell. Scattered reports on producer prices suggested that prices of raw materials rose while finished goods prices were relatively stable. Manufacturers in several districts were concerned about their business prospects in the coming months. Some planned further reductions in employment and were cautious about their capital spending plans. Construction and Real Estate Most districts reported slower construction activity. Scarce financing and earlier overbuilding were associated with abrupt declines in starts of commercial buildings and residential developments in several metropolitan areas. New York observed that reduced commercial construction was expected to help ease the vacancy rate in midtown Manhattan. Housing starts were reported to be down in most districts, but home sales registered increases in several. Six districts noted general weakness in residential construction, although multi-family activity was higher in the Dallas district. Home sales rose in at least parts of five districts, but Atlanta and San Francisco reported general declines. Some districts commented on home prices. Atlanta and San Francisco indicated that the median home price had declined from a year ago. New York attributed unsold homes to unrealistic pricing. Financial Activity in the financial sector was generally softer. Several districts reported that sane financial institutions had tightened their lending standards, especially for real estate loans, because of uncertain economic prospects or higher capital requirements. Total loan demand was unchanged to lower in most districts. The demand for commercial and industrial loans was weak across the nation, while the demand for consumer loans was mixed. Many districts indicated that loans to commercial real estate developers were down. Agriculture The agricultural sector was generally strong across the country. Several districts noted that yields of most crops are expected to be good, and Minneapolis and Kansas City indicated that higher livestock prices and low feed costs would help support farm income. In the St. Louis and Richmond Districts, recent rains and cold weather caused some delays in harvest activity and damaged soybeans somewhat. Also, several districts reported that low crop prices or higher production costs might limit the incomes of some farmers in their areas. Three districts reported on farm lending activity. Kansas City reported that the demand for agricultural loans rose, and Chicago and Richmond reported a good pace of repayments on agricultural loans. Energy Several districts reported on energy-related developments. Kansas City noted increased oil drilling activity, and Dallas and San Francisco expected an increase soon. Atlanta and San Francisco indicated shortages of skilled labor in their oil-producing regions. St. Louis observed that higher fuel prices were being blamed for cutbacks in the transportation sector, and Boston and Chicago noted transportation surcharges resulting from these higher prices. Richmond and St. Louis indicated that coal production was up, although coal prices were mostly unchanged.