Overview Most Sixth District firms contacted in October report marginally slower growth than last month and generally flat year-over-year sales. Retailers, with few exceptions, report slower sales in September than in August and attribute this to a further erosion in consumer confidence. Banking contacts supported this view and indicated that in the last month or so consumers have become more conservative in taking on new debt and business loan demand has softened. Retail contacts were less optimistic this month than last concerning their outlook for sales for the remainder of the year and into 1991, sentiments echoed by District manufacturers of consumer and nondefense goods. However, defense and oil related producers cited a recent increase in orders. Most realtors report weaker residential and commercial sales in September than in August but a few areas in the District are reporting improvements. Recent contacts report shortages of skilled labor in oil producing regions in the District. They generally indicate that oil price increases have not yet been incorporated into the price of most finished goods. Retail Sales Retailers generally report flat year-over-year sales volume in September, as compared to slight growth in previous reports. Contacts in Florida and Georgia, our two largest states, report that small retailers and department stores are seeing a significant reduction in gross receipts. These contacts indicate that announcements of layoffs at retail stores are becoming more common, some associated with debt-ridden parent companies but others associated with weakening sales. In contrast, discount department stores are reportedly showing some strength and are largely responsible for the aggregate level of retail sales remaining flat. Most retail contacts report that floor traffic is off from last month and consumers are purchasing less expensive items. These reporters still attribute the recent slowing to reduced consumer confidence resulting from the recent political and economic uncertainties and fueled by the media. A contact in Florida reported that the most recent (September) University of Florida Consumer Confidence index fell from the July level (their last survey) and that the survey's report on the percent of consumers willing to undertake big-ticket purchases also slipped. While this survey is limited to Florida, the findings generally agree with the observations of most retail contacts in the District. Financial Services Banking contacts also report that growing consumer uncertainty was reflected in their attitude toward taking on new debt. Consumer loan growth in September was at less than half the pace of a year ago. Most of the lending officers that were contacted also indicated that business loan demand weakened in September reflecting slower business activity. The major exception was credit demand by firms associated with the health care industry. Manufacturing Reports on manufacturing around the District were mixed, with defense and oil related activities showing strength while orders slowed for most other producers. Contacts in Alabama report that military apparel producers are running at full capacity with tens of millions of dollars in new contracts awarded since July. Florida contacts indicated a pickup in high tech military orders destined for the Mid East. Most manufacturing contacts producing goods for the private sector reported flat to weakening orders in September. A manufacturer of pump and metering equipment reports that orders are down 5 to 10 percent. According to this contact, both domestic and foreign orders were down: domestic, because his manufacturing customers are reducing capital expenditures, and foreign, reflecting cessation of business with Iraq and Kuwait. A producer of heating and air conditioning equipment reports that total current sales are even with a year ago but distributors are now cutting new orders and reducing inventories and pre-season air conditioner orders are running 14 percent below last year's level. Textile and apparel contacts expect the continuing slowdown in orders to last through the first of the year. Apparel producers without military contracts continue to announce layoffs and plant closings. Textile producers report a weakening of orders in the past few weeks. Construction Construction contacts indicate that construction activity is generally flat throughout the Southeast relative to last year. Several contacts indicated that a number of new commercial and residential projects were placed on "hold" in September. Realtors in most areas of the District indicate substantially weaker sales in September relative to last month especially in Florida and Georgia while in other areas, such as Louisiana and Alabama, reports were of flat to slightly stronger sales. These later reports come from oil producing or support areas and areas with significant aerospace activities. Wages and Prices Contacts reported continued tightening in labor market conditions for certain types of workers in oil producing areas. Skilled workers such as welders, pipe fitters, engineers, geologists and geophysicists are reportedly in short supply in Louisiana. Most manufacturing and transportation companies report that oil price increases are not yet reflected in higher final product prices to consumers. A textile producer noted that the price of synthetic fibers has escalated dramatically during the past month with the price of nylon, the major component of most synthetic carpet, increasing by 12 percent. He added that market conditions for carpet do not allow these increases to be passed through to consumers at present so the increased costs are shrinking profit margins.