Summary The District economy showed little or no expansion in recent weeks. Slow District growth in consumer spending and in some service- producing sectors, particularly health services, is being offset by declining construction and durables manufacturing activity. Higher energy prices are being blamed for cutbacks in the transportation sector. New home construction is generally weak. Agricultural conditions are mixed. The amount of commercial and industrial loans outstanding at the District's largest banks continues to decline. Consumer Spending Contacts report that real retail sales have been near year-earlier levels. Spending on vehicles and other durables has been slowing. New car sales are flat to well below year-earlier levels in many areas, while used cars sales are flat to slightly higher. Contacts suggest consumer confidence has eroded because of weakness in the national economy and uncertainty regarding the federal government budget agreement and the Persian Gulf conflict. Retailers generally expect fourth quarter sales, adjusted for inflation, to be flat or just slightly higher than last year. As a result, some retailers are ordering or planning to order less merchandise than previously planned. Manufacturing Contacts report production slowdowns and layoffs at many durable goods plants. Falling orders from the construction and auto industries will cause a glass factory to close indefinitely in November and have resulted in production slowdowns in factories making rubber insulation, heat exchangers, air conditioners, metal tubing and copper electrical components. Slowing sales, a trend that is expected to continue, have led producers of major consumer appliances to lay off more than 2,000 workers. In contrast, rising demand for freight cars has led one steel plant to begin recalling workers and double production. A primary aluminum producer reports that orders have not slowed and expects no abnormal slowing for the rest of the year. Nondurables manufacturing activity is generally steady or expanding slowly. State Government Activity Because of slowing economic activity, the growth of gross general revenues, and sales tax revenues in particular, has slowed in recent months, but revenues remain slightly higher than a year earlier in Arkansas, Missouri and Tennessee. Revenues are currently meeting anticipated levels in these states. In Missouri, contacts anticipate further weakening, which may necessitate budget cuts. There has been no deceleration of tax revenues in Kentucky, where the state's economy continues to expand slowly. Transportation Higher energy prices are being blamed for cutbacks in the transportation sector. A large airline announced that it would lay off as many as 100 management and clerical workers in St. Louis and stop hiring pilots and flight attendants. A Memphis-based trucking business said that higher energy prices, a truck driver shortage, and weak auto and home sales influenced the cancellation of a planned fleet expansion. Two contacts attribute a portion of the recent growth in express delivery services to the nation's widespread economic slowdown: as the economy slows, firms tend to monitor their inventories more closely and rely more on just-in-time deliveries. Construction and Real Estate Housing starts of single family homes and existing home sales in the District range from down substantially in St. Louis to fairly strong in Louisville. Developers in St. Louis, Louisville and Memphis report some difficulty obtaining construction financing, although mortgage financing appears plentiful. Memphis home sales are down slightly, especially in more upscale neighborhoods. In Louisville, however, both new and existing home sales are up over last year, with the market's relative strength attributed to continued growth in the service sector. Agriculture and Natural Resources Agricultural conditions are mixed. Recent rains throughout the District and above normal temperatures in the Delta have been beneficial to late-planted crops and pastures. These same rains, however, have caused flooding in Arkansas, delayed crop harvesting throughout the District, and may have reduced cotton quality. In addition, a recent cold front may have caused frost damage to late- planted soybeans in some areas. District coal production continues to run more than 5 percent ahead of last year. Banking and Credit Total loans and leases on the books of the District's 11 largest banks declined just over 1 percent in the third quarter, after increasing almost 9 percent during the same period last year. Commercial and industrial (C and I) loans declined 12.5 percent during the third quarter compared with a 5 percent decline a year earlier. Consumer and real estate loans continue to increase, albeit at a much slower pace than last year. Contacts at small and mid-size District banks report declining C and I loan demand from traditional as well as new customers. These same bankers indicate that they are reviewing the declining pool of loan applications more closely.