Summary of Economic Activity Economic conditions have continued to expand at a modest pace since our previous report. General retail sales growth was modest, while manufacturing activity showed signs of strengthening. Conversely, reports from auto dealers indicated a slight decline in first-quarter sales. Business contacts surveyed in mid-February continued to hold an optimistic outlook for growth in 2017. On net, 57 percent of contacts expect District economic conditions in 2017 to be better or somewhat better than last year. This was a slight improvement since contacts were surveyed in mid-November. Employment and Wages Employment has increased modestly since the previous report. On net, 25 percent of business contacts surveyed in mid-February reported that first-quarter employment was higher or slightly higher than a year ago; 18 percent reported hours worked were higher or slightly higher. District contacts continue to report that the labor market remains tight. Manufacturing, real estate, and construction contacts in St. Louis reported difficulties finding qualified candidates, and contacts in Memphis and Louisville reported an inability to fill key positions. Contacts reported moderate wage growth since the previous report. On net, 63 percent of contacts reported wages were slightly higher or higher than a year ago. Contacts in Little Rock reported that wages for skilled workers continue to increase slowly, with more employees changing employers for higher wages. Contacts in Memphis and Louisville reported upward pressure on wages for both skilled and unskilled positions. Prices Price pressures have increased modestly since our previous report. A greater share of business contacts surveyed reported higher prices charged to consumers than in previous surveys. On net, 33 percent of contacts reported prices were slightly higher than a year ago and a similar share expect price increases during the second quarter. On net, 44 percent reported non-labor input costs were slightly higher or higher. A contact in the Louisville manufacturing sector reported their raw material input costs were slightly higher due to supply shortages of certain chemicals needed higher in their supply chain. Since the previous report, cash prices of rice and corn have declined slightly, while the prices of sorghum and soybeans were slightly higher and coal prices were modestly higher. House prices across the District also increased moderately. A residential real estate contact in the St. Louis area reported raw material prices have climbed. Consumer Spending General retail sales growth has been modest since our previous report and contacts continued to hold an optimistic outlook for 2017. Most general retailers reported a slight increase in year-over-year sales halfway through the first quarter. Similarly, the majority of hospitality contacts in St. Louis, Memphis, and Little Rock indicated that sales during this period met expectations and that they anticipate sustained growth in the months to come. On the other hand, a hospitality contact in Louisville reported that occupancy rates are projected to decrease this year after a strong 2016. Reports from auto dealers indicate a slight decline in year-over-year sales in the first quarter. Half of surveyed auto dealers reported a shift in demand toward used vehicles, and the remaining dealers reported no change. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity has increased at a moderate pace since our previous report. Several companies reported capital expenditure and facility expansion plans in the District, including motor vehicle, food product, and wood product manufacturers. In a recent survey, contacts reported an improvement in manufacturing conditions. A strong majority reported that production, new orders, and capacity utilization increased in the first quarter relative to one year ago. This is an improvement from our previous survey, when most contacts reported no change in activity from one year earlier. Contacts were also optimistic about the second quarter, with three-fourths expecting further growth in production, new orders, and capacity utilization. Despite the optimistic outlook, some contacts expressed concerns about labor shortages and possible trade restrictions. Nonfinancial Services Responses from the service sector have been positive since the previous report. In particular, several firms that provide information technology services, leisure and hospitality services, and healthcare announced plans to build new or expand current facilities and hire new employees. Reports from the transportation sector were positive, with two large employers hiring new employees and renovating facilities. Reports from the professional business services and warehousing sectors were mixed, some existing employers reduced employment while new companies began hiring. About two-thirds of service and transportation contacts reported sales met or exceeded expectations in the current quarter, and two-thirds of contacts expect dollar sales to be higher in the second quarter than at the same time last year. Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate activity has improved slightly since our previous report. Real estate contacts reported mixed home sales activity, indicating little change in overall sales. Nearly half of respondents indicated that sales fell short of expectations midway through the first quarter, citing reasons such as low inventory levels and higher mortgage rates. Still, many real estate contacts expect demand to improve in the second quarter, pushing single-family sales above one year ago. Residential construction activity has improved slightly since the previous report. December construction starts ticked up, while there was a minor decrease in permit activity. A slim majority of local real estate contacts reported that residential construction activity was slightly higher than a year ago halfway through the first quarter, and a similar fraction of respondents expect construction to continue to increase into the second quarter. Commercial real estate activity has improved at a moderate pace since the previous report. A majority of respondents indicated an increase in demand for both office and industrial properties compared with the same time last year. Meanwhile, most contacts reported no change in demand for retail and multifamily properties. These trends are expected to continue in the coming months. Commercial construction activity improved modestly. Local construction contacts continued to report a rise in demand for office and retail properties. Banking and Finance Banking conditions in the District have improved at a moderate pace since the previous report. Banking contacts report moderate to robust year-over-year growth in demand for business and mortgage loans. District bankers also indicate that the credit quality of applicants for these two loan categories was markedly higher during the relevant period compared with last year. Since the previous report, there has been an uptick in the number of bankers reporting deteriorating credit quality among agricultural loan applicants. Nevertheless, contacts indicate that delinquency rates were slightly improved across all loan categories. The overall outlook among banking contacts is positive, with contacts citing expectations of modestly higher loan demand and the possibility of regulatory relief reducing compliance costs. Agriculture and Natural Resources Agriculture conditions were unchanged from the previous report. As of the end of January, more than 94 percent of District winter wheat was rated fair or better, a slight improvement over crop condition at the end of January 2016 and the current crop's condition at the end of December. However, contacts reported that lower grain prices continued to affect farmers in the area, who have further reduced investment in land and equipment. Natural resource extraction conditions improved slightly from the previous report, with coal production stabilizing and higher coal prices helping profits. District seasonally-adjusted coal production was little changed from December to January, while production was 10 percent above last year's level.