Summary Fourth District respondents expect that the economic expansion will be sustained at least through the final quarter of 1991, despite short-run effects of the oil-price shock. The worst of the inflation bubble is expected to occur next quarter. The oil-price shock is expected to weaken consumer spending further, but District retailers generally report their August sales turned out to be better than expected. Manufacturers are cautious about short-term prospects for output, but generally acknowledge that effects of the oil-price shock so far have been relatively minimal. Lending activity by banks and thrifts appears to have slowed further in recent weeks. The National Economy District respondents generally expect that the expansion will be sustained at least through 1991, despite short-term dampening effects of the oil-price shock. A panel of 21 Fourth District economists expects that growth in real GNP will slow to about 1 percent between 1989:IVQ and 1990:IVQ, which is about one-half the increase they expected last May. Only a handful expect a two to three quarter contraction in real GNP, of 1 percent to 3 percent at annual rates, beginning either in 1990:IIIQ or 1990:IVQ, and extending into 1991.IQ. For 1991, the panel expects slow but steadily rising growth in output from the first quarter through the fourth quarter. The median forecast of real GNP shows growth of 1.9 percent for the year, somewhat less then they expected last May. There are no recession forecasts for 1991. Inflation Outlook The recent jump in crude oil prices is generally expected to have temporary effects on inflation. An inflation bubble is expected between 1990:IIIQ and 1991:IQ, with the worst of inflation expected to be at nearly a 5 percent annual rate next quarter. Thereafter, inflation is expected to revert to a 4 percent rate through the balance of the 1991. While most of the panel of 21 forecasters expects a temporary burst in prices at slightly below a 5 percent rate, several expect that the GNP implicit-price deflator will rise between a 5 percent and 9.5 percent rate into early 1991 before moderating. Consumer Spending The oil-price shock has weakened the near-term outlook for real consumer spending, according to the Fourth District panel of forecasters. They now believe that real consumer spending between 1990:IIQ and 1990:IVQ will increase by about 1 percent instead of the 2 percent they expected last May. Nevertheless, sales reported by retailers and producers of consumer goods in August were generally as good as, or better than, sales in July. Department store retailers in this District are less optimistic about sales prospects for the fall season. Most report, however, that sales in August rose from July, but that increases were smaller than in the previous month. Retailers generally expect that price promotions will be necessary to sustain sales over the next few months. Retailers in Cleveland report that their back-to-school sales in August were as good as, or better than, sales last year. Auto retailers report August sales were about as expected, and, in some cases, better than in July. Some report a step-up in consumer interest in fuel-efficient cars, and most dealers report buyers are still leaning toward more expensive rather than mid-priced cars. According to some auto producers, car sales in August were better than they expected in their pre-oil-shock forecasts. Some believe that the timing of the consumer confidence surveys may have biased the survey results, and expect future surveys to show some recovery in consumer confidence. Manufacturing District respondents in manufacturing and utilities are typically cautious about short-term prospects for production and profits because of uncertainties over the oil situation. They report no unusual deferments or cancellations of orders or spending in response to the oil-price shock. They emphasize a lessened dependence on oil, a more efficient capital stock that has been installed in anticipation of even higher real prices for oil than at present, and the relatively small price increase in crude oil now compared with episodes in the 1970s. The steel industry is still operating at close to effective capacity, and producers report a strong third quarter for orders and production. A producer reports that orders for October are being booked at a good pace. There is a tone of less confidence over the short-term outlook because of uncertainty about the effects of the oil situation on the auto and appliance industries. Steel producers point out that their industry is more energy efficient now than even five years ago. Crude-oil costs are a relatively small part of production costs, but the added fuel cost will hurt already squeezed profit margins because additional costs cannot be passed through to steel consumers. Some capital-goods producers are less optimistic about short-term output and spending plans, because they expect that the uncertainty over the oil situation will temporarily erode business confidence. Some expect that there could be a temporary deferring, or postponing, of short-lead-time equipment from this year into early next year. They also emphasize that capital stock additions in recent years anticipated real oil prices even higher than at present prices. Auto production next quarter will likely exceed new car sales, barring work stoppages, but dealers caution about holding inventories and deterioration in consumer confidence are likely to be constraints on auto output plans. Light truck output will be hampered by a 100-day inventory. Heavy-duty truck output is reviving slowly from a trough in late 1989 and early 1990, and output this quarter will likely be the best so far this year. A major electric power utility in Ohio believes that the effect of the oil-price shock is minimal because their facilities have become marginal users of crude oil. Also, more efficient energy use by the utility's industrial accounts have sharply reduced the effects of oil price increases. Financial Developments Some banks and thrifts report a further slowing in lending activity in recent weeks. Mortgage interest rate increases of at least one- half point on fixed-rate mortgages since early August have dulled mortgage lending. Some lenders also state that concerns about rising delinquencies and increasing nonperforming loans that are reported nationally are contributing to more cautious lending policies. While some expect near-term cutbacks in consumer spending, they also believe that consumers will not curtail spending as much as most forecasters expect. High office and retail vacancy rates in many metropolitan centers, coupled with tightened lending terms, have moved some developers to shift their operations into other kinds of construction. A large shopping mall developer, for example, will increasingly focus on construction of residential communities. Another developer has been moving into apartment construction from office building.