Summary District contacts indicate that the economy has weakened slightly in recent weeks, implying that the District's growth rate borders on zero. Higher oil prices and consumer uncertainty stemming from the Persian Gulf crisis are expected to exacerbate the economic slowdown. The level of District employment has fallen this summer. Retail sales are reported as flat to up moderately and several contacts have an optimistic outlook for the rest of the year. Manufacturing activity has weakened in recent months, as have the construction and real estate industries. Despite moderate deposit growth, loan growth is flat at the District's largest banks. Most District crops are in fair-to-good condition, although some are being stressed by extreme heat and inadequate soil moisture. Consumer Spending Reports on recent District retail sales are mixed. Most contacts, however, report sales as flat to up moderately from a year ago. Many retailers report that recent sales met or exceeded their expectations and were obtained without excessive price-cutting. Inventories are generally at desired levels. Several contacts have an optimistic outlook for the rest of the year, but some are concerned about the potential negative effects of higher oil prices. Most retailers expect retail prices to remain stable through the end of the year, although a few think prices will rise this fall, in part because of higher oil prices. It is feared that the deployment of soldiers from a base in Kentucky will result in a sharp decline in business activity in nearby communities. Contacts indicate that sales of new autos are generally week while sales of used cars are strong. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity has weakened since the first quarter. Producers of home appliances, chemicals and electrical equipment expect flat or weakening demand in the next few months, as much of their demand is related to activity in the motor vehicle and construction industries, sectors that have been weak and are not expected to grow soon. One home appliance producer plans to lay off more than a thousand production workers in September, partly because of planned seasonal cutbacks, partly in response to a recent weakening of demand that is expected to persist. A car manufacturer recently announced that it will postpone the closing of a Missouri assembly plant until May 1991, delaying the expected November layoff of approximately 2,000 workers. The conflict in the Persian Gulf has caused two manufacturers to be more cautious in extending credit to customers in the Middle East; one is holding up shipments of capital goods until previous bills are paid. No substantial price increases in chemical products due to higher oil prices are expected. Construction and Real Estate Residential real estate contacts in Little Rock, Memphis and St. Louis report weakness in new and existing home sales. These contacts believe residential real estate conditions will worsen in the next few months and anticipate no increase in construction over the next 12 months. Residential construction unemployment is high relative to historical levels in St. Louis and Little Rock and is expected to increase in the next several months. Contacts in Louisville, however, report that residential real estate conditions are better than they had anticipated. Banking and Credit Despite moderate deposit growth, loan growth continues to be very slow at the District's 11 largest banks. Although real estate and consumer lending are up substantially from year-ago levels, overall loan growth remains weak because of a marked decline in commercial and industrial loans at Louisville and Memphis banks. Sluggishness in the residential housing market appears to be more demand-driven than supply-driven, as mortgage financing is plentiful. Agriculture and Natural Resources Most District crops are in fair-to-good condition. In some areas, however, a lack of adequate soil moisture and extreme heat are hammering crop development, especially soybeans and pastures. District coal production is running about 7 percent above last year because of strong exports, stockpile rebuilding and increased U.S. electric output. Recent oil price increases are not expected to have a significant effect on the demand for coal or coal prices. Contacts report that exports of rice and Southern pine lumber will be lower than previously expected because of the embargo of exports to Iraq and recent increases in freight and insurance costs for shipments to other Middle Eastern countries. Nonetheless, Southern pine lumber mills report that orders, production and shipments are all up compared to a year ago.