Overview Business contacts throughout the Southeast indicate some further deceleration from the slow pace of growth reported in recent months. Uncertainties associated with the Mid East crisis and higher oil prices are reportedly adding to consumer caution. Retailers report that they are generally reducing orders for new inventory in light of anticipated consumer resistance and their expectations that sales growth will remain sluggish through the fourth quarter. Auto dealers confirm that sales remain soft and note particular weakness in the markets for high priced autos and used cars. District bankers indicate that growth in consumer and real estate lending was weak while commercial lending declined this past summer. Southeast manufacturers, however, still report generally moderate growth except for products related to the construction and auto industries. Shortages of skilled workers continue in a number of areas. Retail Reports from southeastern retailers indicate flat to modest sales growth during July and August relative to the same period in 1989. Expenditures on both durable and nondurable goods varied considerably around the District but generally durables were weak while apparel sales showed a bit of strength associated with back- to-school clothes purchases and summer clearances. A representative of a large retail chain indicated that furniture and fine jewelry sales were off significantly from 1989 levels in July and early August, for the first time this year. The general sentiment among southeastern retailers is that already weak consumer confidence has been negatively impacted by the Mid East crisis and oil price advances during the last six weeks. As a result, these retailers are reducing the size of their orders to manufacturers expecting that growth in sales will remain sluggish through the fourth quarter. Auto dealers continue to report that sales were well below levels seen a year ago, especially during the first two weeks of August. Foreign models again sold better than domestic ones. A few dealers indicated consumers are more resistant to the higher priced models and said that sales of new autos priced under $15,000 were comparatively better. Some noted that it was too soon to detect any switch toward more fuel-efficient models. Financial Services Bankers in the District generally report that slow growth in real estate and consumer loans over the summer was not sufficient to offset declines in commercial lending. The weakness in commercial lending is said to be related to some deferred capital expansion plans and lean business inventories. A few bank contacts indicated they had further tightened credit standards in the last month. A number of others said they had not tightened standards but were adhering more closely to existing criteria. Most bankers, however, agreed that money is available for good projects and that reports of tighter credit seem exaggerated. Growth of consumer loans in July and August was reportedly "anemic." Bankers indicate that demand for auto loans continues to weaken, but they continue to indicate a moderate expansion in home equity lending and single family mortgages. Manufacturing Manufacturers in the Southeast indicate moderate growth in sales except for construction and auto-related products. Paper mills are reported to be running at capacity levels, partially due to export activities and coal production is picking up. Pipe manufacturers report demand by the domestic oil and gas industry is strong. Chemical and plastic producers also noted a continuation of a recent slowdown from strong growth. Weak new and existing home sales continue to impact the southeastern textile industry. Carpet producers indicate demand continues to be soft and that downward price pressures are evident at the wholesale level. They do not anticipate any improvement for some time. New layoffs by southeastern tire producers were reported and an auto assembly plant was closed for a week due to poor orders. Apparel producers note continuing weakness, adding that competition from imports is intense. Wages and Prices Scattered reports that skilled workers are in short supply continue to come in from around the region, especially from the oil and gas producing areas. But these shortages have not resulted in any new upward wage pressures. A union contact indicates that wages among his constituents rose 3.8 percent during the last 6 months compared to 3.5 percent for the previous 6 months. Prices of industrial commodities were steady, with the exception of sharp increases in the energy sector. Freight costs are reportedly up 1.5 percent since early August due to the recent fuel price increases. Most industries report that the higher energy costs are not yet being passed on to consumers.