Economic activity is expanding more slowly or declining in most Federal Reserve districts, but several districts report continued, modest growth. Weakness is most apparent in the northeastern and mid-Atlantic districts. Although patterns of consumer spending vary widely among districts, rates of increase are generally slowing. The districts' assessments of manufacturing activity range from moderate expansion to absolute declines. On average, however, there seems to be little movement in orders or production. Signs of a construction downturn are widespread, but not universal. While drought persists in some agricultural areas, soil moisture conditions are good or at least improved in most reporting districts. So far, the recent increase in oil prices has not affected domestic oil and gas drilling. Several district reports of credit markets focus on soft loan demand and some district banks offer examples of tighter credit conditions. Consumer Spending Retail sales patterns vary widely among districts, but growth appears to be ebbing. While Minneapolis cites "good" sales increases, Atlanta and Boston note flat to modest expansion. New York and Philadelphia report absolute declines in dollar volumes from a year earlier. Sales of big ticket items are said to be particularly soft, but clothing sales continue to show strength in some districts. Several districts mention the negative impacts of higher oil prices. Despite demand weakness in some districts, most retailers say their inventories are at desired levels. Auto sales are up in Minneapolis and Cleveland but are weak or slowing in Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco. One district says that credit tightening has caused some potential auto buyers difficulty in finding financing. Manufacturing Demand for manufactured products shows little overall change in either direction. Minneapolis and San Francisco characterize their manufacturing sectors' performances as mixed, while growth in Atlanta is moderate except for construction and auto-related products. Orders to Boston, Richmond and Philadelphia firms are down, and sales have not changed lately in the Dallas District. Sales patterns differ greatly among industries. Atlanta, Chicago, Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco mention strength in demand for primary metals, while Boston and Dallas note weakness in orders for computer, and some construction-related products. Some districts report increased producer uncertainty about future demand. In some cases, export demand appears to be stronger than domestic sales. Richmond notes exports of manufactures as among the few district manufacturing indicators that are not negative. Minneapolis says that strong foreign demand for producers' equipment has more than compensated for declines in domestic orders. In the Boston district, however, export sales are below a year earlier. With respect to changing costs of operation, a number of districts cite rising freight costs in the wake of energy price hikes. Several districts, including Philadelphia, Richmond, and Chicago report increasing prices of inputs, but Atlanta reports prices of industrial commodities as steady. Construction and Real Estate References to declining construction activity and weakening real estate markets are common. Increases in homebuilding in the Dallas and Minneapolis markets are exceptions, but Minneapolis also notes marked declines in overall construction contract values in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. While Kansas City mentions recent upturns in housing starts, homebuilding there remains below a year earlier. According to the San Francisco report, construction activity is slowing in many parts of the west. Moreover, Boston, Chicago, St. Louis and New York all refer to weakening residential construction or weak housing sales and Cleveland notes high office and retail vacancy rates. Several reports say that respondents expect continued construction weakness in the near future. Agriculture Reports on agricultural production are generally positive, in part, because the soil moisture problems mentioned in the last beige book have ameliorated. In the Richmond District, rainfall in August was mostly above normal and soil moisture levels are now said to be adequate, but the dry weather in June has lowered corn yields. The Dallas District reports that rainfall has improved soil conditions there. Crop conditions are also good in the Chicago, Kansas City and Minneapolis districts. Inadequate soil moisture continues to impede crop development in portions of the St. Louis district. The St. Louis and Dallas districts discuss the negative effects upon rice prices of the embargo on sales to Iraq. St. Louis also notes that recent increases in freight and insurance costs have discouraged exports to other Middle Eastern countries. Several district reports mention generally falling grain prices. Energy Despite marked increases in oil prices in the wake of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, reporting districts say they have seen few effects on drilling so far. Dallas and Kansas City note recent declines in drilling activity, although the rig count remains above a year earlier in both districts. Moreover, industry observers in both districts say they do not expect the recent price shock to have much of an effect until oil prices remain high for an extended period and natural gas prices rise as well. Finance and Credit Most reporting districts say that lending activity is soft. Atlanta, Cleveland, and Philadelphia all mention recent slowdowns in lending, while New York notes signs of weaker demand for business loans. St. Louis cites slow loan growth at the large banks, but Kansas City district bankers report moderate increases in loan demand - including demand for commercial and industrial, consumer, and home mortgage loans. Financial organizations in several districts note tightening credit policies for at least some borrower groups. Banks' and thrifts' concerns over the viability of economic growth is said to have discouraged some lending.