Summary Economic activity in the West is growing at a modest pace, following some slowing in recent months. Since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, western business leaders' expectations of future national economic growth have weakened sharply. Price inflation remains around 5 percent, with the exception of the recent large increase in oil prices. Retail activity appears to be softening in most parts of the District. Manufacturing conditions are mixed, with strength in commercial aircraft and aluminum offset by weakness in some other sectors. The situation in the Middle East has shaken up energy- related industries, while agricultural conditions remain generally strong. Real estate and construction activity continue to cool off in the District's coastal areas, while most inland areas remain strong. Financial institutions note recent weakening in lending activity. Business Sentiment Western business leaders expectations of future economic activity have deteriorated significantly since Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. 39 percent now expect a national recession during the next 12 months, compared with only 4 percent six weeks ago, and only 5 percent of respondents now anticipate that growth will be as strong as 2 1/2 percent, compared with 30 percent last time. Most respondents indicate that the Iraqi invasion has not yet caused changes in their business plans, beyond a renewed interest in energy conservation. One firm, however, has put new Middle East business on hold while a few others are approaching future capital investments with increasing caution. Wages and Prices Price inflation remains around 5 percent, with the exception of the recent large increase in oil prices. Gasoline prices are up sharply throughout the District. Jet airplane fuel prices in Seattle are up 62 percent since the end of July. Most respondents indicate that wages have risen by about 3 to 5 percent from their year-earlier levels. However, the cost of benefits continues to rise at a faster pace, with rising health care costs cited as the major factor. Retail Trade Retail activity appears to be softening in most parts of the District. Auto Sales have slowed and auto manufacturers continue to fatten rebates to prevent sales from eroding further. Sales of other durable goods, like farm machinery and home furnishings, also are reported to have weakened. Sales of nondurable goods are reported to be softening. A retailer in Southern California indicates that, excluding the effects of promotions, sales fell 5 to 6 percent in August from a year ago. Another West Coast retailer reports that, since July, sales have been up just 3 percent from a year ago, well off the 10 percent growth seen in earlier months. However, reports indicate that sales gains were considerably more robust in California's Central Valley, Alaska, Hawaii, and Utah. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the District is reported to be mixed overall. Aluminum manufacturers continue to run at about 90 percent of capacity, and one observer suggests that an increase in demand for aluminum products may occur as the Defense Department builds up its inventory of spare parts. Newsprint manufacturers continue to do well, but the packaging and paperboard side of the industry has slowed significantly since last year. Orders for commercial aircraft have been relatively stable for the past three months, and most manufacturers continue to face multi-year backlogs. A paint and coatings manufacturer reports that some of his markets are starting to show signs of slowing, which represents a deterioration from last year when all markets were accelerating. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Conditions in agriculture remain good overall. Agricultural prices continue strong for most crops except wheat and some feed grains, and livestock markets have held up better than expected. California's almond crop will be the largest ever, but the resulting downward price pressure may put prices below production costs. In the lumber industry, weaker sales are depressing prices and increasing inventories. Interest in new oil drilling activity has increased in some areas of the District since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. One natural gas firm plans to increase capital expenditures by 65 percent this year over last year's level. Construction and Real Estate Real estate activity continues to cool in the District's coastal areas, but conditions inland remain strong. Home price appreciation in the Seattle area is slowing and the inventory of unsold homes is growing. Commercial leasing activity in southern California continues at a good pace, but net effective rents have declined 4 to 6 percent from last year as a result of persistently high vacancy rates. Home prices in Bakersfield and Sacramento continue to rise, but reports suggest that price increases may be slowing from their earlier phenomenal paces. Construction activity is slowing in many parts of the West. Financial Sector Financial institutions report generally good conditions, despite weakness in lending activity. One southern Californian bank reports declining deposit levels while another indicates that consumer, commercial, and construction loan volumes have weakened in recent weeks. One banker reports that loan activity continues to grow in Oregon and Washington, but at half of last year's pace.