Overview The Tenth District economy is growing slowly. Retail sales have weakened over the last three months, with auto sales slumping as some potential buyers are finding it difficult to obtain financing. But rural business conditions generally continue to reflect the improvement in the farm economy over the past three years, an improvement that is expected to continue as bumper crops are harvested this fall. Retailers are trimming inventories, while manufacturers are trying to maintain or reduce their stocks. In the energy sector, drilling activity has slipped in recent months but remains above the level of a year ago. Housing starts are up from last month despite a slight increase in mortgage rates. Retail Sales Most district retailers have been trimming inventories in light of weakening sales over the past three months, especially in July. Expectations are mixed for sales over the next three months, while prices are expected to change little. New auto sales have dropped in most district states over the last month and are expected to drop further during the rest of the year. Some potential buyers are having financing problems due to credit tightening. Most dealers are trimming inventory levels to make room for new models. Manufacturing Purchasing agents report higher input prices from a year ago but generally stable prices over the last three months. Some prices have risen recently due to the Gulf crisis as fuel price increases have pushed up transportation costs. Agents generally expect more increases in input prices in the next three months. Agents are having little difficulty in obtaining inputs and most expect few problems for the rest of the year. Most firms are maintaining or reducing inventories. Energy Despite significantly higher oil prices since Iraq invaded Kuwait, exploration and development activity in the district has declined recently. The district rig count fell from 303 in July to 282 in August. Nonetheless, the rig count remains about 9 percent above the year-ago level. Industry observers do not anticipate much improvement in drilling activity unless oil prices remain above $25 a barrel for an extended period and natural gas prices are eventually pulled up by higher oil prices. Housing Activity and Finance Housing starts in most areas of the district are up from last month, though still below levels a year ago. Sales of new hones remain mixed. Several builders report increases in lumber costs and a shortage of labor. The outlook for new home sales is mixed but biased toward a slowdown for the remainder of the year. Most district savings and loan respondents report net outflows of deposits over both the last month and the last year. Mortgage demand is constant to down slightly and is expected to decline over the next three months due to seasonal factors. Mortgage rates have risen slightly at most institutions but are expected to decline slightly in the near future. Banking Commercial bankers report that total loan demand rose moderately over the last month. Demand increased for commercial and industrial loans, consumer loans, and home mortgages, while demand for commercial real estate loans and agricultural loans decreased. Loan- to-deposit ratios did not change over the last month but are down slightly from a year ago. Total deposits increased moderately over the last month, with increases in demand deposits, NOW accounts, MMDAs, and small time and savings deposits. Large certificates of deposit, IRAs, and Keogh accounts were unchanged. Bankers report no major changes in their prim rates or consumer lending rates, and few expect any changes in the near future. About half of the respondents report that other loan terms, for example, collateral requirements and loan covenants, have recently been tightened or are being reviewed for possible future tightening. Although a few rural bankers report that credit standards have been tightened due to regulatory pressures or concerns about an economic slowdown, most indicate that credit standards for small businesses have not changed. Agriculture District crops are generally in excellent condition. Bumper crops of corn, soybeans, and milo are expected in Kansas, where a record wheat crop was harvested earlier this year. The Oklahoma cotton and peanut crops could be the best in years. Development of late-planted crops in eastern Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska, however, is one to three weeks behind normal, making crops in those areas vulnerable to substantial yield reductions if an early frost occurs. Higher fuel prices have not yet affected district farming activities, although harvesting costs will be pushed up. Prices of some fertilizers, pesticides, and other petroleum-based products may also rise if petroleum prices remain high. If this happens, farmers will reduce their use of these products next spring. Business conditions in rural communities across the district generally reflect the rebound in the farm economy over the past three years. Still, the improvement in the district's Main Street businesses has not been uniform. Small businesses continue to struggle in some rural communities, while both established and new businesses thrive in others.