Summary Economic activity continues to expand in the Seventh District, at a stronger pace than in 1985 and 1986 despite lagging demand for autos. From December 1986 through April 1987, payroll employment in District states rose faster than in the U.S. Chicago purchasing managers reported another month of continued growth in May, accompanied by further increases in prices and slowing of deliveries. Sources contacted regarding capital spending in various industries noted several sizable projects and numerous smaller ones, some announced earlier and already under construction, others to be started next year. Signs of improvement are reported in demand for some types of machinery which had been weak. Slowing auto sales have led to production cuts and layoffs, particularly affecting southeast Michigan. Steel continues to show surprising strength, with some products in short supply and prices rising. A large retail chain reports a pickup in sales in early June, after a slow May. There are indications that would-be home buyers are adjusting to higher mortgage interest rates, though one knowledgeable source sees continued hesitancy in hopes that rates will fall. Livestock farmers' earnings have been boosted by higher prices. Allaying earlier concerns about a lack of precipitation, prospects appear good for high crop yields per acre in most areas of the District. Capital Spending Contacts surveyed recently noted numerous capital investment projects underway or expected, some not until next year. These include several auto assembly plants, parts plants, and other facilities, Japanese, American, and joint venture, being built, expanded, or improved in District and nearby states. A large steel mill, a joint venture American-Japanese plant, is to be built in northern Indiana. Other steelmakers are expected to make sizable investments in upgrading facilities in the District and elsewhere. Rehab projects are going ahead at refineries and electric utilities, including conversion of a Michigan plant from nuclear to gas expected to start next year. A producer of building and industrial products expects to increase its capital spending substantially in 1988 and 1989. A furniture maker is building a computer furniture manufacturing plant in Michigan. Machinery Some markets for equipment show an upturn, but reports on current conditions are mixed. A capital goods producer, bearish in recent years, sees significant improvement in some lines, including basic food processing machinery and specialized machinery, but not in petroleum equipment. On the other hand, a steelmaker reports improved demand from the petroleum industry, particularly for offshore drilling, as well as from makers of farm equipment, construction equipment, and railcars. In contrast, a large farm equipment producer forecasts retail demand in 1987 below 1986's low volume. To an unknown but apparently significant extent, strength of steel demand from these sectors reflects rebuilding of low inventories and filling of order backlogs built up during prolonged work stoppages which ended early this year in steel, farm equipment, and construction equipment. Motor Vehicles Auto sales have continued to trail year ago. Automakers have reduced their forecasts of sales for the year. Production cuts and layoffs, temporary and indefinite, at assembly and parts plants have been particularly significant in southeast Michigan. A contact expects unemployment in the Flint area to rise to around 14 percent by year-end, as a result of auto industry cuts and their effects on other businesses. In contrast, truck sales so far this year have been above last year's strong pace. An industry source expects production of heavy trucks to exceed 1986's output by 16 percent or more, returning to around the 1985 level. Steel Production cuts in the auto industry have not been reflected in reduced output of sheet steel. Order backlogs, built up because of the USX work stoppage, have been reduced. Third quarter output of sheet and other steel products is expected to be unseasonably strong, partly because of reduced imports, and partly because of increased usage in some industries. The reduction in imports is thought to be mainly a result of the lower dollar, rather than bilateral import restraint agreements. Hot rolled sheet and plate were reported in short supply. A large amount of structural steel is under contract or out for bid, part of which is for auto and parts facilities under construction in this country. Steel prices are up with further increases expected later in 1987 and into 1988. Housing Potential residential mortgage borrowers experienced "sticker shock" in May after interest rates jumped up sharply, but are said by one contact to be returning to lenders. Another source, however, thinks talk that interest rates will decline is causing some potential homebuyers to wait. Chicago-area lenders typically are quoting 10.5- 10.75 percent for 30-year fixed-rate loans, with a few as low as 9.9-10 percent seeing strong demand. Lenders' cost of funds has risen less than yields on home loans, resulting in attractive spreads. New home construction in the Chicago area this year has been above a year earlier, largely as a result of the mild winter. Home resales have been active but below excellent levels in 1986. Rental housing units in certain parts of the Chicago area are in excess supply. Consumer Spending A large general merchandise retailer reports that sales were somewhat slow in May, but have been strong so far in June, helped by warm weather. Women's apparel has been selling well, despite price increases resulting from the lower dollar. Credit delinquencies, concentrated in energy and farm states, have declined after rising earlier. Inventories are low. Agriculture Earnings of District livestock farmers have been buoyed recently by a large rise in cattle and hog prices. Because of strong earnings, cattle feeding activities have expanded, particularly in Iowa. During the first four months of this year, Iowa farmers placed 30 percent more cattle in feedlots than a year earlier. Some observers view the increase as a sign that the long, steep downturn in cattle feeding in Iowa has ended. Spring crop plantings in District states are virtually complete, one of the earliest planting seasons on record. Early stands of corn are rated mostly "good". Rains have tempered earlier concerns about drought in most District areas.