Summary Economic conditions are healthy in most parts of the Twelfth District, although weakness persists in the intermountain area and in Alaska. Spending on consumer products, including automobiles, has slackened in recent months, but the pace of manufacturing activity has improved. Forest products activity continues at a strong pace, while higher prices for many western agricultural products bode well for mining and farming enterprises. The recent upturn in oil prices has sparked optimism among California oil producers, but oil-related problems in Alaska continue to mount. Higher interest rates have had little impact on construction activity in most areas, as residential markets continue generally healthy and nonresidential activity already had been slowed by high vacancy rates and tax reform. Financial institutions have experienced sharp reductions in home mortgage refinancing applications, and many report a renewed interest in adjustable rate instruments. However, few bankers report significant declines in mortgage applications for home purchase. Consumer Spending In many parts of the District, the pace of consumer spending has slowed in recent months. Sales of both domestic and imported cars are reported to be lackluster in several areas, including the otherwise economically healthy San Francisco and Seattle areas. In the San Francisco area, auto sales reportedly are down 21 percent from last year, with inventories rising. Several respondents noted that although new car sales are down, used cars are selling very well. In the Eugene, Oregon, area one auto dealer estimates that he sells two used cars for every new car sold. More generally, respondents in Arizona and Washington report moderating of the previously robust activity in those two states. In Idaho, sales tax receipts for April were higher than they were in March, but remained substantially lower than their year-earlier level. Import-dependent retailers and distributors are being hurt by the reduction in imports that has taken hold in recent months. Manufacturing Manufacturers of some products that compete against low-cost imports report strengthening sales and orders which they attribute to the reduced value of the U.S. dollar. Sectors reporting improvement include apparel, semiconductors, and computers. One large semiconductor maker has announced that it intends to complete two Oregon facilities which were put on hold in 1985 due to the semiconductor industry slump. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Lumber production continues to be strong, and many mills are running at peak levels. China is becoming an increasingly important market for these products. Already this year, 8.5 million tons of railroad ties have been exported through Portland to China, and shipment of 10.5 million board-feet of lumber to China will begin in August. Demand in Japan and Europe also has been bolstered, by the reduced value of the dollar. Overall, lumber exports are 28 percent higher than they were a year ago. The volume of orders declined in April and early May due to the increase in mortgage interest rates, but as rates stabilized later in the month orders picked up again. The prospects for many western farmers have improved. Cattle producers are enjoying higher prices and lower feed costs, while potato and fruit growers benefit from a mild winter and increased production. California cotton commands prices double the level of last year, as strong foreign markets, notably in China, buoy demand. However, dry weather in some parts of the District has raised concerns about summer yields. Wheat farmers, among others, continue to experience low prices. Despite high participation rates in government acreage-reduction programs that should reduce the current oversupply problem, they see little prospect of improvement. These problems are particularly apparent in eastern Washington and Oregon, in southern Idaho, and Utah. In Kern County, California, oil industry prospects have improved modestly since the price of local oil rose to $13 per barrel from less than $10 a year ago. In contrast, Alaska's economy continues to founder. One company reports that the volume of freight it ships to Prudhoe Bay is down 70 percent from last year's level. Construction and Real Estate Most respondents reported that the increase in interest rates this spring has had little effect on the volume of real estate activity in their areas. In the San Francisco Bay Area, for example, the real estate market has been healthy through May. One East Bay developer placed forty-seven "spec' lots on the market, at prices of $75,000 and up, and sold forty of them on the first weekend. Although residential construction activity remains largely unaffected at this point, some builders reportedly are scaling back plans for residential units in 1987, and generally are taking a more cautious attitude. Moreover, some building materials dealers have reported a sharp drop in low-end housing starts, since low income buyers are particularly sensitive to higher interest rates. High vacancy rates and changes in the tax law caused a slowdown in commercial construction activity earlier in the year, and higher interest rates appear to have had little additional impact. A few projects which do not pencil out at the higher rates have been squeezed out. One banker argues that some developers have withdrawn loan applications, hoping that rates will fall later in the year. Financial Sector The initial jump in mortgage interest rates caused a flurry of activity in April, apparently due to concern about the possibility of further rate increases. Several bankers report that the increase in interest rates has reduced demand for mortgage refinancing and renewed interest in adjustable-rate instruments. For example, one banker reports that refinancing applications have fallen to thirty percent of their previous level. The same banker notes that while fixed-rate mortgages previously comprised about 85 percent of his bank's mortgages closings, they now account for only 60 percent of its total. Most bankers report little change in the number of mortgage applications for housing purchases, but one claims that the number of applications has dropped to a third of the level seen several months ago.