Overview Reports from the twelve Districts suggest that on balance the economy may have reached its trough but few signs of recovery are seen. Only Atlanta, St. Louis, and Kansas City report signs of improvement. Other Districts report either flat or deteriorating conditions. Retail sales improved in May but were mixed in June, and retailers remain very cautious. Manufacturing activity remains depressed with new production cutbacks seeming to outweigh the few production increases. Additional, although slower, inventory liquidation seems likely. Construction, mining, and agriculture remain weak. There are some signs that inflation continues to abate. Consumer and real estate lending is weak, while business loan demand is mixed. Bankers are concerned about delinquencies and loan quality. Retail Sales Retail sales improved in May but were mixed in June and retailers are cautious about the second half. The May improvement reported by most Districts was mostly in non-durable goods. Sales of household durable goods generally are weak, except in San Francisco. Several Districts report sales gains were achieved only because of strong promotions and large markdowns. Discount stores are doing better than full-price stores. San Francisco, St. Louis and Minneapolis report improvement in car and/or light truck sales, but Dallas reports car sales fell after GM's low interest rate promotion ended. Some Districts report continued improvement in early June while others report retail sales falling back from their May levels. Retailers are at best cautiously optimistic about sales for the second half. They are reported to be conservative about ordering goods and keeping a tight rein on inventories. While some look for sales to increase in response to the tax cut and social security increase, others expect consumers to emphasize saving and paying down debt. Manufacturing and Mining Manufacturing activity generally remains depressed, with new production cutbacks seeming to outweigh the few production gains. Most Districts report either declining or flat orders, shipments and backlogs. Some increases in motor vehicle production are reported, but production of steel and machinery is depressed. Dallas reports firms selling to the petroleum industry are making particularly large cutbacks. Paper production is still being cut but lumber production has stabilized at a depressed level. San Francisco reports cutbacks in commercial aircraft and electronic equipment production more than offset gains in aerospace defense equipment. Reductions in mining activity are widespread. Minneapolis reports sharp curtailment of iron and copper output, a modest reduction in coal production, and oil and gas drilling activity at less than half the year-ago level. Dallas reports oil drilling rates are low, but increased slightly at the beginning of June. San Francisco reports copper and silver mine production at 50 percent of capacity. Inventories Many firms have reduced their inventories to desired levels, but there are widespread reports of continued liquidation, and few reports of plans to build inventories. Most Districts report retail inventories are at desired levels but some suggest inventories are still on the high side. Retailers are reported to be extremely cautious about building inventories. Cleveland reports that liquidation of inventories of consumer goods and some industrial products "has probably run its course" but further liquidation of inventories is likely in primary metals and capital goods. Other Districts generally report significant proportions of manufacturers still planning further reduction of inventories. Richmond reports nearly one-third of manufacturers still view inventories as excessive, and Boston reports many manufacturers plan to reduce inventories over the next three to six months. Dallas reports many firms have excess inventories, particularly those selling to the petroleum industry. Philadelphia reports the pace of inventory liquidation is tapering off from May's peak rate of reduction. Construction Most Districts that commented on residential construction report very low levels of activity with no indications of improvement. Two exceptions are Dallas, where starts are "up strongly from April," and San Francisco, where homebuilding "appears to be picking up," albeit from a post-World War II low. The outlook for commercial construction is weakening. New York and Chicago report postponements of new projects and Dallas reports a decline in the number of new project announcements. Softening in office rental markets is reported by New York, Atlanta, Chicago, and San Francisco. Agriculture The situation in agriculture is generally gloomy. Grain prices are depressed while input prices continue to rise. Low farm income, high interest rates, and falling land prices make financing difficult. Financial strains are reported by Atlanta, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco. Several Districts report spring planting delayed by wet weather. A bright spot for farmers is livestock prices, reported up by St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. Inflation There are some signs that inflation continues to abate. Prices in department stores are reported to be sharply discounted in most Districts. San Francisco reports food supermarket price wars. Commercial property rental markets are soft in some Districts. Chicago reports construction project bids "10 to 20 percent below estimates," and sharp price discounts in building materials and paper prices. Prices for basic metals and grains also are weak. Manufacturers in the Richmond District report declines in prices paid and received in the past month. Chicago reports "unilateral cuts" in salaries of nonunion employees and negotiations with unions to adjust compensation and work rules. Philadelphia reports industrial prices stabilized in May and June. However, prices of livestock and crude oil are rising. Financial Conditions Consumer loan demand is generally weak and business loan demand is mixed. Bankers are concerned about delinquencies and loan quality. Little, if any, growth is reported in bank consumer lending. Loans to finance purchases of automobiles are reported to be constrained by usury laws. No strength is reported in real estate lending. Business loan demand is reported strong in some Districts and weak in others. Where strong, it is variously described as distress borrowing and as a substitute for tapping the bond market, but there is little indication of borrowing for plant expansion. Several Districts report bankers are concerned with the quality of existing loans and are very cautious about the quality of new credits. Delinquencies have risen, and San Francisco reports concern about the "level of nonperforming business loans, particularly to the construction, forest products and aerospace industries."