Summary Developments in the Seventh District provide little hope for near-term improvement. It is unlikely that the region will participate in the uptrend widely expected for the nation in the second half of 1982. Machinery and equipment output and bookings have been declining sharply this year in virtually all lines. Sales and output of motor vehicles improved in the second quarter, but remained at depressed levels. Increases in defense outlays have not been a significant factor here. Retail sales of nondurables rose somewhat in May, but remained relatively soft. Construction activity showed less than seasonal gains. Most employers have been reducing or, at best, maintaining staff. Unilateral cuts in nonunion compensation are common. Renegotiations of labor contracts continue, not always successfully. Some large corporations are shrinking or restructuring operations. Price reductions are still common, but may be moderating. Oil product prices have rebounded. Seventh District farmers are completing crop plantings, after a slow start in Iowa. Livestock prices continue at favorable levels, but corn and soybean prices remain depressed. Farm equipment sales remain poor. Declines Spread Few economic sectors in the District have remained untouched by the recession. Meat packing has been going through a painful adjustment. Electrical component manufacturers report substantial declines in orders, for some the worst in their history. Demand for office furniture, which remained strong through the first quarter, softened in the spring. Service industries also report reduced demand, including engineering, technical consulting, public relations, commodities trading, and recreation. Inflation Some companies now expect a 5 percent rise in average prices of purchased materials in 1982, only half as much as in 1980 or 1981. But in some sectors prices are down dramatically. Bids on construction projects are running 10 to 20 percent below estimates. Sharp price discounts also are noted for steel products, nonferrous metals, cement and other building materials, and paper products. Many of these depressed prices would rebound rapidly if demand improved, partly because capacity has been reduced by retirement of older facilities. Corporate Restructuring Financial problems and reduced estimates of future demand have caused various District corporations to take steps to restructure their operations. Drastic actions are required in some cases to "ensure survival", and to get into position for the eventual upturn. Divisions are being closed or sold, some because they are unprofitable, others because they are readily marketable. Substantial reductions in corporate staff and unilateral cuts in nonunion salaries, up to 10 percent, are common. Negotiations with unions to adjust compensation and work rules in order to control labor costs continue, often without publicity. However, substantial increases in compensation continue to be announced in many fields. Employment Labor markets continue soft in all portions of the District. In April, payroll employment in the five District states was down 5 percent from the prosperous level of April 1978 and manufacturing down 18 percent, a much worse performance than the nation. Unemployment averaged 12 percent in the District in April, compared to 5.6 percent four years earlier (when it was lower than for the nation). In addition to those unemployed, many workers are on short hours. Complete shutdowns for a week or more at a time are common. New hirings are at a low ebb as indicated by help-wanted ads and reports from job-finding agencies. Summer work for students is less available than at any time since the 1930s. New college graduates with technical degrees are having unusual difficulty finding work. Capital Expenditures Evidence from District companies suggests a much larger decline in capital spending than was indicated by the recent Commerce Department survey, both for projects to be located here, and for equipment produced here. Business equipment orders are off sharply this year, frequently by 20 to 30 percent or more. Components such as castings are off as much as 50 percent. Motor Vehicles Auto production was off 31 percent from last year in the first quarter, and 22 percent in the second quarter, but the third quarter is expected to be up 7 percent. Light truck output has been running well ahead of last year since February, but heavy trucks remain weak. Vehicle inventories are at comfortable levels and imports are under restraint. Industry leaders expect a continuing moderate improvement in sales and output of both cars and trucks, but not enough to return the auto centers to prosperity. Steel Although steel demand is running well below forecasts made earlier this year, District producers have increased their share of the total. Primarily, this is because auto industry demand for steel, an important market for these mills, is "less bad" than the total. Demand for heavy steel products for structures and equipment is "weak and getting weaker." Steel executives are pleased that the Administration has decided to take action to curtail steel imports, although imports are less of a factor here than nationally. Retail Sales Sales of general merchandise improved in May according to major District retail chains, but no strong further advance is anticipated. Auto parts and apparel are moving well, but big ticket items, including household appliances and floor coverings, remain slow. While use of installment credit has increased somewhat, delinquency experience has been favorable, reflecting tighter standards. Construction Construction contracts for new commercial and industrial structures in the Midwest are running well below last year's depressed level. Work continues on large new office buildings for Chicago's downtown area, but new starts are being delayed because major tenants have not been signed and permanent financing has not been arranged. Rehabilitation work is relatively strong. Agriculture Crop planting is nearly complete throughout the District. Even west of the Mississippi, where rains caused delays, substantial progress has been made. As of June 20, soybean planting in Iowa was 88 percent complete (compared to a five-year average of 100 percent), and corn planting was 98 percent complete. Despite heavy rains in some local areas, crop conditions are quite good.