Overview Business conditions in the Tenth District appear to be firming somewhat, and attitudes about the future appear to be slightly more optimistic. Retail sales gains have been stronger recently, and are expected to improve further in the months ahead. Inventories are well under control, with the possibility of some additions to retail stocks in the third quarter. Input prices are generally stable. Housing activity continues to be weak, as are savings inflows to thrift institutions. If excessive moisture conditions continue, it would have the potential of harming the winter wheat crop and hindering the planting of other crops. Loan demand at Tenth District commercial banks is generally flat. Deposit growth is mixed, with NOW accounts the primary source of growth beyond seasonal patterns. Retail Trade Most retailers in the Tenth District report sales increases in the 2-9 percent range between the first five months of last year and the first five months of this year. Sales improved substantially in April and May of 1982, especially apparel and softgoods; durable goods sales remained weak. Merchandise costs have stabilized in recent months, resulting in few price increases at retail. Tight controls and improved sales have brought inventories well within desired levels. Some slight inventory buildup is anticipated in the third quarter of 1982, as purchases of merchandise increase to accommodate expected sales gains in the last half of the year. Purchasing Agents The majority of purchasing agents contacted in the Tenth District report input prices have remained stable or decreased slightly compared to a year ago. Prices are expected to remain stable for the rest of this year. All firms contacted are continuing to trim their inventories and plan to maintain very low inventory levels for the remainder of the year. Input availability is not a current problem in the District, but could become one if more suppliers go out of business or, in light of current capacity utilization, the economic recovery occurs at a greater pace than expected. Housing Activity Realtors and builders in the Tenth District report generally weak sales and stable prices. Second quarter housing starts have dropped 25 percent in Kansas City from last year, but they have risen moderately in other areas-with an increase of over 20 percent in Oklahoma City. Prices are stable or up moderately-3 or 4 percent at most. Sales are generally moderately weaker than last year, varying from down 10 percent in Kansas City to up marginally in Oklahoma City. Sales are weakest in the $95,000 to $185,000 price range. Supplies of building materials are adequate and inexpensive. Builders warn, however, that a sudden rise in construction activity will cause severe supply bottlenecks. Housing Finance Officers at Tenth District Savings and Loan Associations lament the continuing decline of savings inflows-down as much as 50 percent from last year. The 30-month CD has proven an effective vehicle, however, propelling modest boosts for competitive institutions. Officers fear that the recent upsurge in interest rates forebodes a renewed exodus to money market funds. Most associations are sticking to portfolio loans, but some report an unexpected but modest pickup in market rate mortgages from very low levels. One officer, however, dismissed the upswing as a mere seasonal flurry, and most associations are unwilling to commit funds past 30 days. Loans made at market rates are at interest levels of 16 1/2 to 17 percent, with little anticipation of a near-term decline. Agriculture Some areas in the Tenth District have received an excessive amount of moisture from the heavy rains occurring over the past several weeks. This situation has delayed both the harvesting of the winter wheat crop and, in turn, the planting of some fall crops, particularly in southern Oklahoma. In northern Oklahoma and Kansas the harvesting of winter wheat is soon to begin. No adverse effects on the quality of the wheat are reported. Some hail damage has been reported, but overall wheat conditions are estimated from fair to good at this time. Bankers in Nebraska report favorable progress being made in the planting of spring crops despite the cool weather. Recent improvement in cattle and hog prices has had a positive impact on the income of livestock producers in the Tenth District. However, bankers report no signs of livestock producers increasing their production capability. Banking Developments Reported loan demand is generally characterized as flat throughout the Tenth District. Several banks in Oklahoma indicate that commercial and industrial loan demand has recently increased. However, in contrast to 1981 and the first quarter of 1982, the source of this strength is in nonenergy related businesses. Real estate lending is down throughout the District, as is agricultural lending. Consumer loan demand is mixed with most activity arising from credit cards. Several bankers note that the overall quality of their outstanding loans has deteriorated, and some are obtaining additional collateral and restructuring loan terms. Deposit growth at Tenth District banks is mixed. Most bankers contacted report some growth in NOW accounts, but few new accounts are being opened. Those banks expanding loans are also generally issuing large CD's. Virtually no growth is reported in all saver certificates, and most other categories of deposits are following their typical seasonal pattern.