Overview Fifth District business and economic activity continues very weak and by many measures has deteriorated further in recent weeks. Generally, activity in the manufacturing sector has continued to decline. Manufacturers surveyed report further declines in shipments, new orders, and order backlogs in the past month. Inventory liquidation has apparently moderated but continues. Retail sales began to show some life but big ticket items were not helped. Sales and construction in the housing sector have made no appreciable recovery from the very low levels of recent months. Business and mortgage lending activity is generally quite slow. Consumer lending continues spotty and basically weak, but may have picked up slightly from former levels. Expectations continue to improve and are quite strong among survey respondents. The Manufacturing Sector Sales, shipments, and order backlogs all declined further during the latest survey period according to our manufacturing respondents. Once again, stocks of materials declined while finished goods were basically unchanged. Nearly a third of the respondents, however, still view current inventories as excessive. Manufacturing employment among respondents also continued to fall during the mid- May to mid-June period, as did the length of the average work week. Official reports just becoming available, however, indicate that manufacturing employment, as well as total employment, began rising in the early spring in most areas of the District. Unemployment rates remain high but have dropped back from the record levels reached in March. Respondents further report no change in employee compensation and actual declines in other prices paid and received over the past month. Optimism continues to spread among these manufacturers as about three quarters expect business conditions to improve shortly. Consumer Spending Survey responses suggest a modest improvement in the retail sector in recent weeks. This improvement has been narrow, however, and there is some evidence that it may mask a decline in sales of big ticket items. Retailers surveyed and Richmond directors believe that sales of durable goods have been reduced to those absolutely necessary. Any improvement, in this view, will be dependent upon a change in consumer attitudes. They do not see such a change as imminent, however. Our information further suggests a continuation of consumers paying down debt and increasing savings. Housing and Construction Little change is evident in this sector. Sales of houses and construction generally remain very slow, and there is no apparent expectation of significant near term improvement. The Financial Sector Richmond directors generally expect little or no increase in business or consumer loan demand over the next few months. They find that businesses have reduced their loan requirements through inventory liquidation but that the process may still have a way to run. While some business sectors like autos and wholesalers are thought to be near the minimum levels for inventories, other industries are seen as likely to reduce stocks further. Generally, business borrowing is being restricted to the absolute minimum. The outlook for consumer lending is no better. There is little expectation that consumers' purchases of durable goods will show any sustained improvement in the next few months. Here too, purchases are being made only in near emergency cases. The Outlook Manufacturers responding to our survey have become even more optimistic than last month. Nearly three fourths of them expect the level of business activity nationally, locally and in their respective market areas to improve over the next two quarters. Retailers, on the other hand, still expect little or no change in the level of activity over the remainder of the year.