Summary Overall, District economic activity continues to increase slowly. Manufacturing reports are mixed, while nonmanufacturing reports indicate continued growth. Increased government regulation is reported to be hampering small business activity throughout the District. Construction activity has slowed relative to the beginning of the year, and real estate loan demand has declined recently. Reports of demand for other consumer and business loans, however, are mixed. District crops are, for the most part, in good condition because of recent rains. Manufacturing District manufacturing reports indicate little change in employment overall as some firms report expansions and growth, while others report layoffs and relocations. For example, an apparel manufacturer will begin renovating an old food-processing plant in Greenville, Mississippi, this fall, hiring 1,000 people upon its completion next year, while a furniture maker in Mississippi is expanding capacity, adding 125 employees. In addition, a Michigan-based maker of automobile seat covers expects to employ up to 400 people by January at its new plant in Kentucky. Offsetting these gains, a St. Louis-based defense contractor, who has been reducing employment for almost two years, laid off an additional 222 people. An automaker announced that 500 will be laid off at its St. Louis plant this fall as it decreases production. A steel manufacturer will eliminate 150 jobs when it closes an Illinois mill next year to move production outside the District. In addition, a Louisville clock maker, employing 185, closed. Nonmanufacturing District nonmanufacturing firms continue to show employment growth. For example, a major retailer plans to add 400 employees at its St. Louis operation before the end of the year, while a motor freight company will employ about 150 workers in Memphis this fall after relocating its southern Mississippi hub. A telecommunications company in Memphis added an additional 100 employees because of expansion. The St. Louis health services industry added 500 jobs in May, bringing the industry's total increase over last year to almost 4,000 jobs. On the other hand, a major bank that has already been reducing its regional workforce decided to close its Missouri operation next year to consolidate in Delaware because of that state's more favorable banking and insurance laws. Small-business contacts throughout the District report that increased government regulations have hampered growth and driven up business costs. Construction and Real Estate District construction activity has slowed from its early 1992 pace. Several contacts report that the recent level of single-family home permits is on par with its year-ago level; this contrasts sharply with early 1992, when the level of permits was up substantially from one year ago. Contacts are divided, however, about whether the recent slowdown is a "temporary lull" or whether it indicates that pent-up housing demand has been satisfied. Banking and Finance Recent balance sheet data from two samples of District banks give conflicting signals as to the direction of loan demand. Total loans outstanding at large District banks increased more in May and June (0.5 percent) than they had during the previous two months (0.1 percent). This turnaround is attributable to strength in business loans, which rose 0.6 percent over the period, compared with a 0.9 percent decline over the prior two months. Consumer loan demand, on the other hand, has weakened, with loans outstanding declining 0.6 percent in May and June after a 2 percent increase in March and April. Loans outstanding at a group of small- and mid-sized banks rose less in May and June than they had in March and April. Business loans outstanding declined 0.6 percent over the current period after a previous 1 percent increase, while real estate loans increased much less than they had in the prior period. Consumer loans were the bright spot, increasing 0.5 percent after a slight decline in March and April. Agriculture and Natural Resources Most crops, aided by recent rainfall throughout the District, are in good condition. The winter wheat harvest is nearing completion in most District states, with yields and test weights generally reported as good to excellent. Some Mississippi cotton growers report that they have had to apply twice the normal quantities of herbicides because of dry conditions earlier this spring and a recent outbreak of weeds. Contacts in Kentucky and Mississippi report higher prices for new farm machinery. After an exceptionally rapid pace of first-quarter production, Southern pine lumber mills report slightly lower production and exports. Lumber prices are reported to have declined recently.