Overview Contacts in the Sixth District generally reported that the economy is slowly but steadily expanding. Fewer retailers reported gains than in earlier months, but a growing number of auto dealers have begun to note a pickup in showroom traffic and sales. Manufacturers in a broad range of industries continue to record modest increases in output, and a small number of firms have reported adding production workers recently. Developers noted some recent leveling in single-family home building, but activity is improved over weak year-ago levels. Commercial construction, however, has not improved. Most banks report higher quality lean portfolios, and there were few reports of constrained credit supply. Wages and prices have remained essentially unchanged. Consumer Spending After several months of broad-based increases in retail sales, reports in June and early July were mixed. Sales of durable home furnishings and appliances have slowed, though sales of non-durables continue to show modest strength. Retailers are being very conservative in their sales projections for the rest of 1992 and many stores are maintaining historically lean inventory levels. Some report that they will not commit to adding jobs until there is a more substantial improvement in consumer demand. Reports from auto dealers, however, generally have been more positive: a small but growing number of dealers across the District noted improvement in both showroom traffic and sales in the last six weeks. Manufacturing Manufacturers in a broad range of industries report modest improvement in production and new orders. Textile and apparel firms have been particularly busy, especially producers of knits and active wear. Residential construction and remodeling continues to stimulate carpet, home appliance, furniture, and cabinet makers; although new orders have been slowing at some plywood producers. Producers of electronics in Georgia and Florida report current increases in production and shipments and further expectations or improvement in activity over the next six months. Firms in each of these industries have reported that they are either lengthening factory workweeks or adding new employees. However, business remains weak in some important sectors. Companies linked to commercial construction continue to report declines in production and new orders. Firms dependent upon defense department contracts expect reduced factory workweeks and permanent job losses. Construction Most realtors report that home sales gained modestly in June and early July. However, some noted that gains have slowed in comparison with the first quarter of the year. Again, first-time home buyers have contributed the most to recent sales, but some realtors have noted improvement in the upper price ranges as well. Builders report that single-family construction has leveled off this summer, but that new building activity remains above weak year-ago levels. Most contacts have not observed any improvement in multifamily construction, although there are reports of low apartment vacancy rates in certain markets. Commercial building remains slow, with most activity coming either from private built-to-suit or government building projects. Financial Services Bankers report that loan demand was mixed in the region in June and early July. Residential lending slowed noticeably from the first quarter of the year, although many institutions reported a pickup in mortgage refinancing applications in the first two weeks of July. Many banks noted an improvement in consumer lending for new and used auto purchases in June, but commercial loan demand remains weak. Bank loan portfolio quality continues to improve and several banks noted that they have become more aggressive in seeking new lending opportunities. Wages and Prices Most contacts reported that wages and prices remained stable in June. Firms that were hiring during the period found that ample supplies of labor allowed them to hire new workers at existing wage levels.