Overview District business conditions and attitudes in June and early July were little changed from the weeks before. Economic activity continued to grow modestly, and while survey participants remained concerned about the pace and sustainability of that growth, on balance they were optimistic about business prospects in coming months. Activity increased in manufacturing, ports and finance. Buyer traffic rose in residential and nonresidential real estate but sales remained flat in most areas. Consumer spending and tourism were flat. In agriculture, recent rains partially reversed earlier damage to crops. Consumer Spending Our regular mail survey indicated little change in retail activity in recent weeks. Retail sales and shopper traffic were unchanged, and employment was stable. Wholesale prices, retail prices and wages apparently rose. Inventories increased, as did capital expenditures. Retailers were optimistic about their prospects for the next six months. They expected sales, shopper traffic and employment to increase. They also anticipated higher employee wages, wholesale prices and retail prices. Manufacturing Our regular mail survey of manufacturers showed that District factory activity and general economic conditions improved moderately in recent weeks. Respondents reported increases in shipments, new orders and employee hours. Prices rose, and most other indicators were stable. Manufacturers noted that, besides poor sales, government regulations and excess capacity were their most important current problems. Manufacturers' forecasts for the coming months remained optimistic. They anticipated increases in all measures of economic activity except inventories and employment, which they thought would be stable. Tourism Hotels, motels and resorts throughout district reported that tourist activity in July was below that in June but about the same as a year ago. About half of the respondents reported that bookings were slightly below last year's levels while one-third reported increases. Several respondents attributed the increases to an unusually good Fourth of July weekend, while those who experienced declines blamed general economic conditions. About half expected tourist activity to pick up through the remainder of the summer. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that credit conditions improved somewhat over the last six weeks. Commercial loan demand, while still weak, had strengthened. Consumer loan demand was steady. Loan rates had fallen somewhat for commercial, consumer and mortgage loans. Mortgage demand rose, but the bulk of the activity was in refinancings rather than in originations. Ports Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), reported that both imports and exports increased in June from May. Compared with a year ago, import activity was mixed, while export activity was generally higher. Export activity was expected to continue increasing at Charleston and at Hampton Roads but to decline at Baltimore during the next six months. Residential Real Estate A telephone survey of real estate agents and homebuilders indicated that activity had been mixed in the residential market since mid- June. Many respondents noted that buyer inquiries had increased, but that sales had remained generally flat. Respondents in several jurisdictions reported growth in the sales of lower-priced homes. Home sales appeared to have risen more in South Carolina than in other jurisdictions in the District. Several respondents believed that a homebuyer's market existed and that many sellers had lowered prices. Most respondents said that lower interest rates had not improved their sales. As in previous surveys, some real estate agents said that the concern of prospective clients about their job security was causing them to delay home purchases. Nonresidential Real Estate Real estate agents surveyed by telephone said that the nonresidential market had been flat or had grown slowly over the past six weeks. On balance, the reports suggested a slight pickup in traffic across the District. District sales and leases had been flat, although weak growth was reported by some respondents, particularly in the Carolinas. Rents and prices on commercial real estate had been stable, and few nonresidential construction starts were reported. Most respondents thought that lower interest rates were having little effect on their markets. Agriculture Recent scattered rain throughout the District has brought some relief to heat- and drought-stressed crops, according to agricultural analysts. They indicated that unfavorable weather in early to mid-July probably had reduced corn yields somewhat and had slowed the development of soybeans. Hay and pasture conditions were said to be fair to poor, but were expected to rebound quickly with the rain. Vegetable crops and tobacco were reported to be in generally good condition, with harvesting underway. The peach crop in the Carolinas, however, was poor.