Summary The Seventh District economy continued to recover in June and early July. but at a slower pace than in May. Establishment survey data indicate that the recovery in District employment has been better than the national average, although recent reports on District labor markets were mixed. Retailers indicated that consumer spending growth remained sluggish but positive. Manufacturing activity continued to lead the District's recovery, and increased motor vehicle production is expected to make a significant contribution to industrial production in the third quarter. District housing activity regained some momentum after recent declines in mortgage interest rates. Bank lending in the District continued to improve in recent weeks, although gains were concentrated in new residential mortgage loans and refinancing. Timely rains have alleviated the drought concerns of District crop farmers, while conditions faced by livestock farmers were mixed. Employment Establishment survey data indicate that District employment through May had recovered roughly one-fourth of its recessionary downturn, but more recent reports on labor markets were mixed. The employment component of most District purchasing managers' surveys generally continued to move higher in recent months, reaching levels consistent with stable or modestly increasing manufacturing employment. A private survey showed improvement in firms' hiring expectations for the third quarter, with reports for firms in the Midwest exceeding the national average. Some individual manufacturers reported plans to make significant employment increases in coming months. However, new hiring continues to be countered by the effects of previously announced layoffs, and there was little slowing in layoff announcements in District newspapers. Help-wanted advertising around the District has shown modest improvement in recent months, while initial claims for unemployment insurance gradually moved higher in most District states in June and early July. Consumer Spending Consumer spending growth was flat to slow in most areas of the District in June and early July. One large retail chain reported that sales in District markets were mixed, but year-over-year comparisons generally strengthened after some softening in trend was noted early in the second quarter. This contact reported that inventories were again in line with plan. after the unplanned increases noted in recent months. Another large retail chain reported that sales in District markets softened during June and early July, after exhibiting strength (relative to the national average) through most of last year and into 1992. Consumers' efforts to pare debt levels continued to dampen sales, according to this contact, although renewed strength in mortgage refinancing was expected to contribute to improvement in sales during the rest of 1992. A survey of retailers in Illinois and Indiana indicated some loss of momentum during May, while a retailers' association in Wisconsin stated that its membership continued to be relatively insulated from demand weakness in other parts of the country. Reports from auto dealers and manufacturers indicated that retail sales closure rates continued to move upward in recent months. One of the largest auto dealers in the District reported that sales and traffic strengthened through the end of June. However, this contact noted that business softened in recent weeks, following the release of the unemployment rate for June. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity continued to lead the District's recovery through June and early July. Purchasing managers' surveys in Chicago. Detroit, Milwaukee, Iowa, and Western Michigan generally indicated continued gains in production and new orders. Slower growth was suggested by several of these surveys during June, but the Chicago survey for July suggested expansion picked up further upward momentum, led by production and new orders. Reports from individual manufacturers were mixed, with strength concentrated in production of consumer durable goods. An appliance industry representative reported that industry shipments growth increased during the second quarter on a seasonally adjusted basis, while orders continued their gradual recovery through June. One appliance manufacturer reported that orders and shipments have exceeded expectations thus far in 1992, although some concern with customer inventory building was also noted. Steel production in the District has been flat in recent months, although one manufacturer noted that orders were building somewhat faster than normal seasonal patterns, citing strength in orders for steel used in autos, appliances, and residential building. Several contacts noted that third quarter motor vehicle production plans are solid, calling for a significant increase from the second quarter. Reports on capital goods production were mixed. A large truck manufacturer reported that heavy-duty truck orders and production continued to exhibit marked improvement in recent months. This contact stared that orders from customers in the District have been exceeding the national average. A large electronics firm reported modest but consistent improvement in orders through June, citing renewed strengthening in the market for computer hardware. Several capital goods producers noted that weakness in domestic orders was at lent partially offset by export gains. Residential Real Estate and Construction Reports from housing industry contacts were generally positive, with renewed strength in sales and construction following recent declines in mortgage interest rates. One of the largest realtors in the District reported a record month for June, in part due to market share gains. A realtors' association stated that existing home sales had strengthened since early July. A homebuilders association reported that strong construction gains earlier in the year had been followed by some softening in recent months, with relative strength noted in home improvement activity. One homebuilder stated that cyclical swings in activity have been concentrated in the upper end of the market, and reported renewed strength in demand for higher- priced homes following recent declines in mortgage rates. A realtor stated that housing starts may be exhibiting higher volatility due to lower inventories of land held by homebuilders. A large manufacturer of plumbing and furniture products stated that orders were still increasing, albeit at a decreasing rate, while shipments in the second half of the year were expected to continue to improve. Increased residential building activity and highway construction has generated consistent improvement in cement shipments in the District for the past five months. Banking Lending by District banks continued to improve, with gains concentrated in residential mortgage lending. Many contacts noted that recent declines in mortgage rates have again stimulated refinancing activity, although new mortgage lending also rose in recent weeks. Reports on commercial and industrial lending activity were mixed. A middle-market lender reported that credit line utilization in June and early July remained relatively flat, and stated that capital spending among its customers had been insensitive to interest rate changes. Another middle-market lender reported that borrower demand softened again in recent weeks. Several law firms involved in loan contract negotiations reported increasingly aggressive lending postures among banks, but a pickup in borrower demand remained relatively sluggish. Agriculture Frequent and extensive rains throughout the District during July have offset earlier drought concerns and significantly enhanced the condition of growing crops. Reflecting this, an unusually high proportion (about 85 percent) of the corn and soybeans in Illinois, Indiana and Iowa was rated "good" or "excellent" as of July 20. However, the frequent rains have also delayed the completion, and the quality, of the District's wheat harvest. Low temperatures continue to slow the pace in crop development and add to the risk that a frost could yet cause damage to fail-harvested crops. Conditions for the District's livestock farmers are mixed. Following a sharp downturn last year, milk prices have rebounded considerably this year. However, the continuing upswing in pork production will weigh heavily on hog prices this fall and well into next year. The latest estimates show hog numbers are up 5 percent from a year ago and 10 percent from two years ago, both in District states and nationwide.