Reports on District developments continued mixed in recent weeks. Department store sales results varied widely in June though most contacts reported better-than-expected gains. Office leasing activity showed some further improvement and several areas experienced a decline in vacancy rates. Conditions in the residential construction market have been somewhat mixed, however, and unemployment rates rose in June to their highest levels since the early 1980s. Most loan officers surveyed at small and midsized banks noted no change in their willingness to lend but lackluster demand. Consumer Spending Sales results at District department stores varied widely in June though most contacts reported better-than-expected gains. The targeted levels were quite modest in some cases, however, and one chain had results that were below both plan and substantially below its year-earlier level. When compared with June 1991 changes ranged from -11 percent to +l7 percent with most stores reporting gains between 4 and 9 percent. Despite unusually cool weather, demand for men's and women's clothing was strong and one chain experienced its best Father's Day week in four years. Furniture and other household items also sold well. As a result of the generally positive sales results, inventories at most department stores were on or somewhat below plan. With regard to the outlook, respondents were still fairly cautious though they were hopeful that visitors to New York's Columbus quincentennial celebration and the Democratic convention would provide a significant stimulus to July sales. Residential Construction and Real Estate Conditions in the residential construction market have been somewhat mixed in recent weeks. Homebuilders in two western and central New York areas reported a good response to this year's spring home shows with considerably better sales than a year earlier and some pickup in new orders as well. Sales were also off to a good start at a New Jersey site where 81 homes will soon rise. In other areas, however, activity was reportedly slow as consumers remained reluctant in response to continued layoffs and economic uncertainty. Office leasing activity showed some further improvement as firms continued to avail themselves of lower rents and other concessions in order to upgrade their quarters. Several observers noted that, as commercial space is becoming more competitive with outside areas, some firms are canceling plans to relocate and opting to remain in the District instead. As a result of these developments several areas, including Long Island, northern New Jersey, Westchester County and mid-Manhattan, have experienced a recent decline in office vacancy rates, although these rates remain at high levels. A major exception was downtown Manhattan where firms moving to newer buildings marketed older space and the vacancy rate rose. Other Business Activity District unemployment rates rose in June to their highest levels since the early 1980s and, at 9.2 percent in both New York and New Jersey, are now the second highest among 11 large states. New York's rate jumped from 7.9 percent in May while New Jersey's was up from 9.0 percent in May. While these seasonally adjusted state unemployment rates often show monthly volatility, their current high level and the continuing decline in nonfarm employment suggest to some analysts that the recession in the District has not yet run its course. Moreover, the outlook is dimmed by recent announcements of additional employment cutbacks ahead. In upstate New York, for example, Smith Corona will be moving to Mexico within the next year, eliminating almost 700 jobs, and a footwear producer will be moving to Arkansas by the end of August eliminating another 145 jobs. On a more positive note, a pharmaceutical company employing 650 which had planned to relocate has instead decided to remain in the District and two manufacturing companies have just signed contracts with federal government agencies and could expand employment. In addition, the construction industry will receive a boost from a new $235 million mixed-use tower for which land is being cleared in Manhattan's Lincoln Center area. Much of the building, which will cover an entire square block and have 38 floors of apartments, together with 8 floors of office and retail space, has already been sold or preleased. Reports from purchasing managers in June showed some improvement in general business conditions in Rochester and stability in Buffalo. Financial Developments Nearly all loan officers surveyed at small and midsized banks in the Second District indicated that their willingness to lend remained steady relative to two months ago, but the demand for loans was lackluster. Both consumer and residential mortgage demand were mediocre. The few respondents mentioning an increase in the demand for residential mortgages attributed it primarily to refinancing activity. However, the demand for business loans was reported as steady to somewhat higher. Most respondents reported no change in delinquency rates during the past two months. Virtually all officers reported lowering their deposit rates but noted there was no outflow of deposits. Rather, deposits generally shifted from maturing certificates of deposit into more liquid savings accounts, as customers avoided being locked into low long-term rates.