Overview According to business contacts, the Southeast economy continued to expand in August, although at a somewhat less rapid pace than before. Retailers again reported higher sales, and their expectations for Christmas are mildly optimistic. Activity among District manufacturers has been mixed; however, most expect orders to increase over the next few months. Building remains strong, although single-family home sales slowed in August. Commercial and multifamily residential real estate markets continue to improve, with rising rental prices and falling vacancy rates. Commercial loan demand is generally on the upswing, while consumer loan demand is said to be weaker. Contacts report that some input prices are on the rise, but wage increases are described as stable except for a few specific sectors. Consumer Spending District retail contacts generally report improving sales. Women's apparel sales are showing gains, while sales of men's wear continue to increase. Back-to-school sales have been mixed in the region. Some contacts note strong sales with double digit growth while others report that children's apparel has not sold well. Sales of home-related products continue to slow. However, retailers generally expect year-over-year gains in fall and Christmas sales. Apparel sales are expected to make the largest gains over last year. In response to these better expectations, many retailers report that they are building up inventories, although some continue to purchase closer to time of need than they have in the past. Auto sales have slowed somewhat; the ending of the model year has some customers delaying purchases and some dealers running out of popular product lines, although the slowdown seems concentrated in imports. Merchants say that competition remains strong throughout the District, keeping pressure on retailers and manufacturers to hold the line on prices. Manufacturing Factory activity has been mixed since the last reporting period. The outlook over the next few months remains upbeat, however, as most contacts expect to see increasing orders. Structural steel producers note strengthening orders for new building and bridge construction. Business is also increasing for paper and newsprint producers. Some textile markets, like denim, are improving, although other apparel fabric production reportedly remains weak. Home textile production remains at high levels. Some manufacturers of healthcare textiles and bedding fabric are adding employees and increasing factory workweeks in response to strong product demand. Suppliers to the auto and light truck industry continue to expand operations and increase production at plants in the region. Less positively, suppliers to the aerospace industry are operating at low levels of capacity due to a continued dearth of new orders. The recently announced purchase delay of F-22 fighters by the Air Force is expected to affect future hiring of production workers in Georgia. Other regional military contractors note declining orders and are concerned about future prospects. Tourism and Business Travel Tourist traffic remains heavy at casinos on Mississippi's Gulf Coast. Convention activity continues to push hotel occupancies to high levels in New Orleans. Florida tourism officials, however, are concerned about a sustained slowdown in visitor arrivals. Hotel occupancies are down from a year ago in southern and central Florida; officials blame this sluggishness on competition from other tourist destinations and adverse publicity about crime. Continuing growth in the Asian and Latin American markets, however, appears to be offsetting some of the reported slowdown in visitors from Europe, and cruise industry bookings remain strong year over year. Construction According to District realtors, home sales slowed in August, with most attributing this to higher mortgage rates. However, home prices continue to rise across the region. Existing home sales are reported to be stronger than sales of new ones. Builders said that activity has increased in August compared with July, because of better weather conditions. Builders also report that construction time for homes has increased because of the reemergence of a shortage of skilled laborers seen earlier. Commercial and multifamily real estate contacts continue to report improving conditions in their markets. Multifamily occupancy rates continue to rise and rental rates have also been on the increase. New apartment and condominium developments have been announced recently in many parts of the District. Commercial realtors continue to report tightening markets characterized by falling vacancy rates and rising rental prices, though commercial construction is reported to continue at low levels, except in the retail sector which is seeing moderate gains, and the Atlanta metro area, in which there is some new building in preparation for the 1996 Olympics. Financial Services Bankers around the region reported that overall lending was steady. Commercial loan demand outpaced consumer demand in most areas. Several bankers noted significantly increased competition on the commercial side. Some banks described consumer loan demand as disappointing. Auto lending has slowed at the end of the model year with the decline in sales. Mortgage lending seems to be slowing in most markets as refinancings have disappeared and home sales decelerate. Wages and Prices Although there have been some recent reports of labor market tightness in parts of the region, they have mostly been limited to clerical and some service personnel as well as skilled construction workers and are not widespread. Reports of price increases have become more numerous since the last reporting period, especially at the raw material level. Some contacts in the paper, apparel, metals, and building products industries now that their input prices are trending upward, but few say that they are able to pass on these rising costs. The competitive environment appears to be holding finished goods prices steady.