Overview The Tenth District economy is growing at a healthy pace. Retail sales increased over the past month and manufacturers continue to operate at high levels of capacity. In the farm sector, rebounding cattle prices have helped trim losses in the cattle industry and conditions remain generally good for crop producers. In other areas, residential construction and sales of new homes continue to slow and retreating oil and natural gas prices have restrained district energy activity. Retail prices are reported to be stable while prices of manufacturers' inputs are up from a year ago. Retail Sales Retailers report sales increases over both the past year and the past month. Several retailers report their strongest sales in apparel and furniture. Prices have changed very little since last year and are expected to remain steady for the rest of this year. Most respondents expect sales to grow moderately over the next few months. While most retailers are either satisfied with current inventory levels or are trimming slightly, some are planning to increase inventories for the upcoming holiday season. Auto dealers report sales have been flat over the past month due to a lack of supply. Dealers are optimistic that sales will increase over the next few months. Financing is available for both dealers and potential buyers. Dealers are having difficulty building up their low inventories because new models are not yet widely available. Manufacturing Purchasing agents report their input prices are up from a year ago, although fewer agents report input price increases during the past month. Several agents report difficulties in getting materials. Manufacturers using construction materials such as lumber and cement report significantly longer lead times. Firms are generally satisfied, however, with their current inventory levels. Most firms are operating at high levels of capacity, with a few agents reporting difficulty in obtaining skilled labor. Exporting firms expect foreign sales to remain stable through the end of the year. Energy Retreating crude oil and natural gas prices have recently slowed district energy activity. After a two-month rebound, the average number of drilling rigs in the district slipped from 235 in July to 226 in August, well below the average from a year earlier. Housing Most builders report housing starts declined last month and that some additional decline is expected over the rest of the year. Respondents also report slower sales of new homes. Despite these declines, prices of new homes remain higher than a year ago. Some builders report shortages of building materials but expect prices of materials to remain stable. Mortgage demand continues to decline with higher mortgage interest rates. Most respondents expect mortgage demand to remain sluggish as rates level off. Agriculture The district's winter wheat harvest is complete. Wheat yields were slightly below normal in much of the district due to dry weather during the growing season. In contrast, corn and soybean yields are expected to approach record levels when harvest begins in a few weeks. Cattle prices have rebounded somewhat in recent weeks, trimming losses in district feedlots. Large cattle-feeding losses during the summer pushed many speculative investors out of the industry. But most established cattle feeders were able to cut their losses and stay in business by reducing their cattle inventories. As a result, district feedlots are operating below capacity. Bankers in most rural communities report modest improvement in overall business conditions since last year. Contributing to their upbeat assessment are a rebound in crop earnings after last year's floods, healthy retail sales, and strong loan repayments by most non-farm businesses. Banking Loan demand rose last month at most reporting banks. Demand for consumer loans rose and demand for home equity loans was flat to up. Changes in demand were mixed for commercial and industrial loans, construction loans, and commercial real estate loans. Demand for mortgages and agricultural loans was down at most banks. Loan- deposit ratios were flat to up from the previous month and security investments were mostly down. All respondents raised their prime rate 50 basis points last month and about half expect to raise it again in the near term. All reporting banks also raised their consumer lending rates, with half expecting further near-term increases. Lending standards were unchanged at all banks. Deposits fell last month at most respondent banks, due mostly to declines in demand deposits and IRA and Keogh accounts. MMDAs were flat while changes in NOW accounts, large and small time deposits, and savings deposits were mixed.