Reports on District economic developments were by and large more favorable in recent weeks. Most retail contacts posted July sales results that were on or above plan and homebuilders noted a pickup in activity after some earlier slowing. Office leasing activity showed some recent improvement and unemployment rates declined in the District during August. Senior loan officers surveyed at small and midsized banks reported strength in business loan demand but weakness in the mortgage and consumer sectors. Consumer Spending Year-over-year sales results were generally positive among District retailers in July and partial data indicate that the pattern continued into August. A majority of respondents reported that sales were on or above plan with gains ranging between 0.5 percent and 6.0 percent. The one chain with a small year-to-year decline in sales attributed this in large part to having much less clearance merchandise on hand this July compared with last year. Items mentioned as strong sellers were men's wear, junior apparel, women's jewelry and accessories and merchandise for the home such as appliances and electronics. Several retailers noted some softness in sales of women's apparel but expressed hope about the new fall fashions. With the exception of one chain which has been attempting to pare inventories for the past several months, retailers described inventories as both current and on plan. Residential Construction and Real Estate Homebuilders in the District noted a pickup in activity during recent weeks after slowing earlier this summer. Most stated that higher interest rates have not been a major deterrent thus far both because rates remain historically low and are spurring buyers to act before rates go even higher. Some noted that higher new home prices resulting from increased costs for materials such as lumber, gypsum and drywall, could have a more pronounced effect on the market than higher interest rates. For the most part, respondents expect the overall volume of housing activity to show little change from last year. Office leasing activity has shown some improvement in parts of the metropolitan area. During July the primary office vacancy rate in midtown Manhattan fell by half a percentage point and in the second quarter, Westchester County posted its largest decrease in available office space since the end of 1991. On Long Island, a 20-year lease was recently signed for two of the Grumman Corporation buildings being vacated, the largest commercial real estate transaction on the island thus far this year. Other Business Activity Unemployment rates declined in the District during August. New York's rate moved down to 6.9 percent from 7.1 percent in July while New Jersey's rate fell to 6.0 percent from 6.4 percent in July. This was the second consecutive decrease for New Jersey. Demolition of the unused Eastern Airlines terminal at Kennedy Airport began in August in preparation for construction of the first new terminal to be built there in over 20 years. An international consortium will build and operate the terminal which will have 11 gates, each able to accommodate the largest jets in use. The new activity is particularly welcome at Kennedy, which had been severely impacted by the demise or downsizing of some of its major tenants. Several department store chains have reportedly expressed interest in acquiring some of the stores that will likely be divested in the metropolitan area as a result of the Macy-Federated merger. These acquisitions would mitigate any adverse employment effect of the merger. On the other hand, Mayor Giuliani recently ordered New York City agencies to make additional cuts totaling $250 million and to prepare for the possibility of cutting yet another $200 million in the months ahead. Further employment cutbacks are likely to result. In addition, G.E. announced plans to reduce its manufacturing work force in Schenectady by 1200 over the next several months. Financial Developments According to senior loan officers surveyed at small and midsized banks in the District, overall loan demand has been mixed. The largest declines in activity occurred in the residential mortgage and refinancing segments. About three-fifths of the banks experienced lower levels of residential mortgage demand, and almost all reported less or no refinancing activity. The demand for consumer loans was also somewhat weak. Business loans, however, remained healthy with close to one-half of respondents reporting higher demand and only one-quarter reporting lower demand. Loan rates have generally increased with the prime rate; only a few banks left their rates unchanged. While nearly three-quarters of the surveyed banks noted no change in their willingness to lend, one-quarter reported an increase. The banks have not altered their credit standards, and more than four- fifths reported stable or lower delinquency rates. Despite the latest increase in the prime rate, the spread between the average lending and deposit rate has generally held steady, with fewer than two-fifths of the banks reporting a wider spread.