Overview Many, if not most, sectors of the District report some slowing from the unusually strong gains seen earlier in the year, although business activity remains at a generally high level. While no broad- based wage and price pressures are being noted, District manufacturers continue to see increases among a range of commodity prices, especially metals and chemicals. Retailers are still holding the line on prices, though, and retail margins remain lean. Loan demand continues to be strong, especially in the consumer lending area. And although commercial lending growth has moderated somewhat, no significant retrenchment in business credit demand is seen, or apparently, anticipated. Industrial Activity Manufacturing production is still brisk in the District, with many capital goods and steel producers continuing to operate at near capacity. Auto-related production has rebounded from the summer slowdown, and District suppliers to the industry note solid production gains in August Capital goods producers are still reporting strong orders, although the growth rate of order books has apparently eased from the blistering rates of early summer. Order backlogs for machinery goods are running five months or more for many District manufacturers, several of whom note a further improvement in foreign operations and orders from abroad. Price increases in the industrial sector are apparently sticking, among them a sharp rise in industrial chemicals prices. A number of District sources are also reporting a further upward movement in metals prices, steel prices are up about $10 per ton in the past month or so. Domestic capacity problems in the steel industry are evidently propping up foreign steel production as well, with imports reported to be 80 percent above last year's level. A major food processor also notes improving business conditions, with both domestic and foreign sales volume on the rise. Abundant harvests are keeping foodstuff price increases moderate, however, up about 1 percent to 2 percent on average from last year. Consumers Retail spending apparently soared during the Labor Day sales weekend, but this spike in activity is not viewed as a trend. Retail business around the District in August was mixed, but generally growing; early returns from back-to-school sales were good, though not spectacular. Apparel store sales are thought to have declined a bit from the previous District report, but hard goods, namely appliances, have been selling at an improved pace. The rise in retail inventories during the second quarter was generally small relative to sales. In fact, several large retail chains saw the higher inventories as a welcome development in light of their increasingly short-stocked situation, and one retailer characterized the inventory turnover rate as "very good." Auto sales are much improved as dealer inventories are refreshed by the model-year changeover. Most vehicle types are selling well, even imports, but light truck sales are especially strong. Dealer inventory shortages are not as prevalent as they were during the summer, although some models remain scarce. Competitive pressures at the retail level are severe, and price increases here are still modest. Consequently, retail margins remain lean. Lending Activity Loan demand around the District continues to grow, although the strength of the credit expansion is somewhat mixed by category and institution. The credit market has become increasingly competitive, and a few banks note losing business to competitors or other credit sources. Some District banks report a modest decline in commercial lending activity, presumably as large commercial borrowers have been lured away by alternative finding sources. Business credit demands are generally reported to be steady and strong, however. Consumer lending in the District is vigorous, although again, alternative funding sources (particularly for new autos) are seen as having cut into some of the commercial bank activity. Mortgage refinancing has slowed to a virtual standstill, and the growth of new mortgage credit has been mixed by area.