Summary District firms continue to report moderate growth, although some sectors have experienced a recent slowing. Many firms report minimal wage pressures, but some price pressures are apparent, as prices for raw materials have increased between 1 percent and 3 percent on average over the past six months. Recent retail sales increases were below expectations, but car and truck sales were robust. Residential construction continues at a brisk pace in most parts of the District, though rising interest rates are beginning to pinch residential housing sales. Total loans outstanding at a sample of District banks declined from mid-June to mid-August after rising in the prior two-month period. Crops are generally in good condition throughout the District, although dry weather has hampered growth in some areas. Consumer Spending District retailers report average year-over-year sales increases of 4 percent to 5 percent, but this was below expectations. Nonetheless, expectations are for a strong fourth quarter, with good volume in the coming holiday season. No price pressures were reported. District car dealers report robust year-over-year sales growth of 7 percent to 10 percent. Shortages of many models, especially trucks, restricted sales growth to some extent. The use of rebates and other incentives to move inventory has declined dramatically. Expectations are that strong sales will continue as long as inventories can keep up with demand. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity District firms, particularly in manufacturing, report moderate growth and employment increases. Some contacts, especially in the Memphis area, have mentioned that they are having trouble finding qualified workers. Even so, employment increases continue at many District firms. For example, a rail car manufacturer will open a new plant in northeast Arkansas, bringing 400 jobs into the area. Little Rock will be home to an airline's newest and largest customer service center, employing 900 people. A maker of kitchen products is expanding in Memphis, initially adding 150 to its current workforce. Firms also report sales growth. A contact in the heating and cooling industry reports the industry is having its best year ever, with production up 15 percent over last year. Sales of air conditioning units are up about 600,000 units over last year. A manufacturer of oil filtration and reclamation equipment reports that business has rebounded in the third quarter after a sluggish start earlier in the year, as contracts from South America and Pacific Rim countries, in particular, have increased. Some industries noted a slowing. A contact in the farm equipment industry reports that sales are down 16 percent from one year ago. A maker of rubber compounds reports slowing because of reduced orders from auto makers. A garment manufacturer will close its west central Arkansas plant because of increased global competition. Prices Reported wage increases, for the most part, have been minimal. Raw materials prices over the past six months have increased moderately, between 1 percent and 3 percent. One contact in the aluminum products industry has seen input prices increase between 10 percent and 12 percent, while a contact in the paper industry has seen input prices decline. Most contacts have not passed these cost increases through to customers. In one case, a paper industry contact reports that product prices have fallen slightly in response to intense competition. A metal manufacturer, though, does report a cost passthrough to customers; about four months ago this industry was unable to pass increased costs along as price increases. Construction and Real Estate Residential construction remains robust in most areas of the District. Builders in Memphis and St. Louis report that labor shortages are putting them further behind schedule. Contacts in Memphis attribute the labor shortage to continued casino building in the Tunica, Mississippi, area. Although sales of new and existing homes hit a record in Louisville in June, realtors in other parts of the District report a slight downturn in homebuyer traffic and sales, which they attribute to rising interest rates and a lessening of pent-up demand. Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at a sample of 102 large, mid-size and small District banks declined 0.6 percent between mid-June and mid-August, after rising 1.1 percent between mid-April and mid-June. Commercial and industrial loans declined 0.8 percent from June to August, after increasing 1.6 percent from April to June. Real estate loans declined 1.3 percent compared with a 0.7 percent increase in the prior period. Consumer loans were the only major category to show continued growth, rising 1.9 percent after a 2.2 percent increase in the prior two months. Agriculture and Natural Resources Despite much-needed rainfall recently, soil moisture is inadequate in many areas, particularly Missouri. Nevertheless, crops appear to be generally in good condition across much of the District. Substantial increases in crop yields are expected, with near record crops predicted in some areas. For example, Mississippi farmers expect to harvest their largest rice crop ever this fall, while Illinois farmers expect to harvest their second-largest corn and soybean crops. The rice harvest is under way in Arkansas and Mississippi with early reports indicating good yields and high milling quality. Hot, dry weather has stressed the soybean crop in parts of Arkansas, Kentucky, Mississippi and Missouri. Southern pine lumber producers report that orders and production so far this year are up about 3 percent to 4 percent over last year.