Overview District economic activity grew more slowly in July and early August than it had in June. Manufacturing and services sector activity increased at a sluggish pace. Retail sales rose little. Activity in housing was unchanged, and credit demand slackened. However, tourism continued to strengthen, and commercial real estate activity picked up. Price pressures were modest. In agriculture, crop conditions improved, but producers were concerned about lower farm commodity prices. Consumer Spending Respondents to a mail survey indicated that District retail activity barely grew in July. Retailers reported that sales and wages rose slightly, employment and shopper traffic changed little, and inventories fell. Respondents reported that retail prices increased 0.3 percent in July. Looking ahead to the next six months, retailers expected demand for their products to increase and their prices to rise 1.0 percent. Service-Producing Firms Respondents to a mail survey of District service-producing firms indicated that activity increased more slowly in July. Service firms reported that revenues and wages were up slightly; employment changed little, except for increases in the wholesale and health services sectors. Service prices rose 0.1 percent in July. During the next six months, respondents expected their prices to rise 0.6 percent and the demand for their services to increase. Manufacturing Factory activity grew more sluggishly in July according to a mail survey of District manufacturers. Respondents noted smaller increases in shipments, the volume of new orders, order backlogs, and the average workweek. However, employment rose slightly in July, and exports were up compared to six months ago. Manufacturers expected shipments and exports to increase during the next six months, but they anticipated little change in employment. Finished goods and raw materials prices increased faster in July than in June but continued to rise by less than the general inflation rate. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity increased in August compared to July and to a year ago. Respondents attributed the increases to unseasonably good weather, better marketing, and a greater-than-normal number of repeat customers. Most respondents expected tourist activity to remain above year-ago levels for the rest of the summer. Ports Representatives at the ports of Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk) indicated that exports were lower in July than in June, but imports were higher. Compared to a year ago, however, both imports and exports were higher. Looking ahead, Baltimore contacts expected exports to increase faster than imports during the next six months, while Charleston and Hampton Roads contacts expected activity to remain about the same. Finance During the past six weeks, consumer loan demand declined slightly, and commercial loan demand remained steady. Interest rates on consumer, commercial, and mortgage loans increased. Lenders indicated that loan originations slowed and refinancing activity remained unusually low. Residential Real Estate According to District realtors and builders, residential real estate activity changed little during July and early August. Building permits, housing starts, and buyer traffic were steady. Home sales were unchanged, although some real estate agents reported an increase in sales of lower-priced homes. Most contacts indicated no impact on sales from recent mortgage rate increases. Home prices were unchanged; lumber prices and construction wages were stable, although the prices of nonlumber building materials rose. Commercial Real Estate District contacts reported that commercial real estate activity picked up in August. Leasing activity remained strong and vacancy rates declined further. One contact in Greenville, S.C., reported that activity there was the strongest since the 1970s. Commercial rents inched upward, except in Charleston, S.C., and in parts of Maryland and West Virginia, where rents were unchanged. Contacts reported new retail and office construction throughout the District. Large discount stores continued to dominate retail construction, but some shopping center construction was reported underway in Virginia and the Carolinas. Some office construction was noted in Virginia and West Virginia, and warehouse construction was reported in the Carolinas. State Revenues State government revenue forecasters said July tax collections suggested moderate economic growth in all District jurisdictions except South Carolina, where real growth slowed, and the District of Columbia, where real growth turned negative. Tourism- and leisure- related tax collections were reported strong in several jurisdictions. Agriculture Conditions in agriculture improved in recent weeks, according to District farm analysts. Moderate temperatures and adequate rainfall boosted the condition of most crops to good or excellent. Peach and vegetable harvesting activity neared completion. Tobacco cutting was well underway, and corn and sorghum harvesting had begun. Preliminary yields indicated that most District crop harvests would be large. Farmers expressed concern, however, about poor price prospects for their crops.