Summary Economic conditions continue to be generally healthy in the Twelfth Federal Reserve District. Nevertheless, western business leaders' expectations about future growth have deteriorated somewhat during the past month, particularly regarding business investment. Wage and price pressures continue modest in most cases. Consumer spending is healthy but not growing rapidly, with weakness noted in auto sales. Manufacturing activity is reported to be mixed, with some producers at capacity and planning expansions, while others report slower orders. Conditions in most resource sectors are satisfactory, with strong growth in agricultural exports. Construction and real estate activity is reported to be strong or improving in most of the West, except Arizona. Banks and thrifts continue to compete vigorously for deposits, while loan demand remains strong for most categories and regions. Business Sentiment Twelfth District business leaders' expectations regarding GNP growth have deteriorated slightly during the past month, as three quarters of the respondents now anticipate that growth will be slower during the next year than its historical average. Expectations deteriorated particularly sharply for business investment. Only 15 percent expect stronger investment, compared with 30 percent last month, while 59 percent now anticipate weaker business investment, compared with only 30 percent of last month's respondents. Wages and Prices Wage and price pressures continue modest in most cases. Reports of wage and price increases of up to 4 or 5 percent are common. Retailers report that competition and price-conscious consumers are keeping a lid on retail prices. 57,000 machinists at Boeing recently agreed to a 10 percent increase in base wages over three years, in addition to cost-of-living adjustments. Consumer Spending Consumer spending is healthy but not growing rapidly. Department store sales are reported to be in line with expectations, with intense price competition. The financial problems of some department store chains are causing concern in the industry. A car dealer reports that customer traffic declined about 40 percent during the first half of November, to the lowest level of the year. Customers are not responding to incentives, but it is not clear whether this is an early sign of further weakening, or simply a payback for the strong sales of August and September. All product lines are affected: imports and domestics, new and used. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the West is mixed. An Idaho respondent reports that production in his area is at capacity, and several firms (particularly food processors) plan expansions. Food processing activity in California also is strong. The Boeing strike resulted in some lost commercial aircraft production. but the huge order backlog should yield healthy activity as work resumes in the wake of the recent settlement. A construction and engineering firm reports that while demand from manufacturers continues to grow, the rate of growth has slowed in recent months. Several respondents, however, note slower orders for manufactured goods. Moreover, a heavy equipment manufacturer reports that export sales were down 1 percent during the third quarter compared to their year-earlier level. A paint and coatings manufacturer reports that most of the companies his firm deals with have experienced a slowdown during recent months. Recent performance varies widely among high-technology manufacturers, as one respondent reports that lower chip prices have hurt semiconductor producers. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Conditions in most resource sectors are satisfactory. Gold prices are up. Metals industries are producing at high levels, although they are not growing. However, the forest products industries seem to be slowing somewhat. Lumber orders and log exports both have fallen during the past year, with recent activity 10 to 15 percent below year-earlier levels. Agricultural industries report healthy conditions, with strong export growth. California farm exports are expected to be about 10 percent higher in 1989 than they were in 1988, with exports of nuts, fruits, and vegetables particularly strong. Livestock operators are doing well, with steady increases in exports. Wine exports are starting to "take off," particularly to the U.K and Japan. The extent of earthquake damage suffered by food processors and by flower and nursery greenhouse operators in Watsonville, Gilroy, and Hollister remains unknown. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate activity is reported strong or improving in most of the West outside Arizona. Building activity in Nevada continues at a vigorous pace, and home values in the Puget Sound area are up by as much as 30 percent over their year-earlier levels. Increases in building and sales activity, as well as in property values, are reported in Oregon, eastern Washington, Idaho, and Utah. California's coastal markets have cooled since the frenetic pace seen a few months ago, but values continue to exceed their year-earlier levels by 10 to 15 percent, and activity in less expensive parts of the state is very strong. Arizona, however, continues to suffer from overbuilt markets for apartment, office, retail, and industrial space. Financial Sector Banks and thrifts continue to compete vigorously for deposits, while loan demand remains strong in most categories and regions. However, the rate of growth in lending appears to have slowed from the robust pace seen earlier this year. A California banker reports that the rate of growth in consumer lending slowed in September and October, as home equity lending grew more slowly and credit card borrowing continued to be slow. An Oregon banker notes some decrease in demand for non-mortgage credit. Several bankers report that delinquencies are down from their year-earlier levels.