Overview The Tenth District economy continues to grow moderately. Although auto sales are weak, other retail sales have improved over the past three months. Auto and other retail inventories are above desired levels. In the manufacturing sector, slowing sales have contributed to leveling off of input prices and ready availability of most inputs. Some manufacturers expect to cut back on production unless sales improve. Resource industries continue to improve, as farm incomes remain strong and exploration for natural gas boosts drilling activity. Retail Sales District retailers report higher sales than a year ago, with improvement over the past three months. Demand for retail goods varies across the district. Winter apparel sales have generally been slow due to unseasonably warm weather. Prices have held steady or decreased in recent months. Most respondents report higher than usual inventories due to warm weather and expansion for the Christmas season. Inventory purchases will remain on hold through the rest of the year. Retailers expect holiday sales to exceed year ago levels, and some expect price reductions over the period. Automobile dealers report weak new car sales over the last month. Most dealers are trying to trim inventories and expect little improvement in sales during the coming months. Manufacturing Purchasing agents report input prices have remained steady or increased slightly from three months ago and have increased 3 to 5 percent from a year ago. Few price changes are expected over the next three months. Inputs are readily available, except for silicon used for computer components and certain wood products, while lead times have generally remained about the same. Most firms are satisfied with inventory levels after trimming them in recent months for seasonal reasons and to increase efficiency. But some firms plan continued modest inventory reductions during upcoming months. Most plants are operating near full capacity, with no reports of bottlenecks from labor shortages or inadequate plant capacity. However, there are some indications that operations soon will be scaled back because of slowing sales. Energy Stable oil prices and increased exploration for natural gas continue to push district drilling activity above year-ago levels. The average number of active drilling rigs in the district increased from 289 in September to 312 in October, the fourth consecutive month of increase. Thus, drilling activity stands nearly a fifth higher than one year ago. Housing Activity and Finance District housing starts have increased from a year ago, and most homebuilders report starts steady or ahead of last month. New home sales have generally been steady, with prices increasing. Stable housing activity is expected in coming months. Most respondents from district savings and loan institutions report net deposit outflows over the past month, although deposit flows were more mixed than last month or a year ago. Expectations for future deposit flows vary. Healthy savings institutions expect greater inflows, while troubled savings institutions expect greater outflows. Mortgage demand remains weak, with continued weakness expected until spring. Respondents report steady to slightly lower mortgage rates and believe rates will decline in coming months. Banking District bankers report increased loan demand over the last month. Increases occurred in commercial and industrial loans, consumer loans, and mortgage loans. Home equity loans, commercial real estate loans, and agricultural loans were unchanged. Most bankers either have reduced their prime rate recently or expect to do so in the near future. Consumer loan rates were mostly unchanged, however, and generally are not expected to change in the near term. Deposits increased during the past month, primarily because of large gains in NOW accounts. Other deposit categories either increased slightly or were unchanged. With both loan demand and deposits increasing, loan- deposit ratios were relatively stable over the last month. Agriculture Yields of fall crops ranged from below normal to normal across the district. Early cold weather cut yields of the Kansas milo crop and the Oklahoma cotton crop. Corn and soybean yields were generally normal in the district, except for reduced soybean yields in northern Missouri due to the drought. Most of the new winter wheat crop is in good condition, but dry weather has left the crop susceptible to cold weather damage. The supply of pastures and forages should be sufficient to meet livestock feeding needs throughout most of the district this winter. Where rainfall has not been sufficient to support grazing of the winter wheat crop, cattle herds are being sustained with hay and other forages. Ample forage supplies combined with strong cattle prices have encouraged some district cattle producers to begin expanding herds. District bankers expect little change in generally strong farm credit conditions, but reduced crop yields and lower crop prices in some parts of the district may slow the rate of paydown and increase the carryover on farm operating loans. In most of the district, however, near-normal crop yields and strong livestock prices have maintained high farm incomes, leading district bankers to expect farm loan paydowns to reach last year's high level.