Economic activity has continued to slow in the Eighth District in recent months. Manufacturing activity has declined with the transportation sector accounting for most of the slowdown. Construction activity has also been weak. While retailers are optimistic about the holiday season, small businesses are somewhat pessimistic about future economic conditions. Auto sales have weakened considerably. Smaller District banks reported increased third-quarter earnings, while larger banks reported lower earnings. Consumer Spending A November 16-21 survey of District general merchandise retailers indicated considerable variation in recent sales. Most respondents reported sales gains from a year earlier of 3 percent to 6 percent. Two respondents, a discount store and a large department store chain, reported double-digit sales increases. The holiday season outlook is generally optimistic. Items selling particularly well include women's apparel, cosmetics, toys and home furnishings. Sales of durable goods, such as consumer electronics, were mixed. Eighth District auto sales have weakened considerably in recent months. One Louisville auto dealer reported October sales of imported vehicles to be down almost a third from a year earlier. Most dealers believed weak sales and high inventories will continue into the first quarter of 1990. Outlook A recent survey of small businesses in the Eighth District revealed rising pessimism regarding future economic conditions. Manufacturers tended to be more pessimistic than other businesses. Compared with last year's responses, fewer respondents planned to make major investments in plant and equipment in the next two quarters. The survey also revealed a slight easing in labor shortages, as the proportion of respondents with unfilled job openings dropped to approximately one-fifth compared with one-fourth a year earlier. Most openings were for skilled workers. Nevertheless, a larger proportion of respondents than in the earlier survey planned to increase average employee compensation. Manufacturing Reports suggest that District manufacturing activity declined slightly in recent months. Producers of electrical equipment, including home appliances and transportation equipment, experienced declining orders. Layoffs of motor vehicle assembly plant workers have continued in recent months both in Louisville, where slowing truck sales led to temporary layoffs, and in St. Louis, where 3,300 auto workers are scheduled to be idled until late November. The two plants will cut production again early next year, causing an indefinite layoff of up to 2,300 workers. Arkansas auto parts suppliers have also reduced their workforces in recent months. Construction and Real Estate Reports indicate that home building in St. Louis, Arkansas and western Kentucky is weak, with very little construction of multi- family dwellings. Recently, St. Louis vacancy rates for both office and industrial space have risen slightly. Construction of a $1.2 billion breakfast cereal plant in Memphis was recently suspended by a manufacturer that is experiencing slowing sales and falling market share. Natural Resources A damaged lock and dam (L&D) and low water levels have sharply curtailed commodity movement on the Mississippi River, and the situation will likely worsen through mid-December. These problems come at a time when barge traffic has increased due to an unexpected surge in Soviet corn purchases. Queue times at the damaged L&D are as much as six days, compared to a normal 10-hour delay. The delays are forcing some corn exporters to ship from the Ohio River valley, instead of the Iowa-Illinois area, in order to meet export contracts. The tie-ups will be exacerbated in early December when the river will close for about four days as part of a construction phase for a new L&D that will replace the damaged L&D in 1992. Industry contacts expect barge traffic to resume at a normal pace by year-end. Banking Most Eighth District banks reported increased third-quarter earnings. Smaller banks continued to add to their profits primarily as a result of larger spreads and improved asset quality, while the District's largest banks saw third-quarter earnings fall. Increasing problem loans forced District banks to add to their loan loss reserves, most notably at the larger banks. Large District banks are now experiencing the effects of overbuilt markets and the corresponding difficulty faced by developers in meeting their debt obligations. Continuing problems with commercial real estate lending, coupled with the continuing loan problems of less developed countries, are major factors depressing earnings at the District's largest banks.