Ninth District economic conditions have been fairly good. The employment situation in the district has been favorable, with reports of shortages of workers for entry-level jobs. Consumer spending on general merchandise has been strong, automobile sales have continued to show large month-to-month fluctuations, and housing activity has continued at a moderate pace. Manufacturing activity has been mixed, and conditions in resource-related industries have been fairly good. Employment The district employment situation has been fairly good. Employers throughout the district reported difficulty finding workers for entry-level jobs even at wages well above the minimum wage. The ongoing expansion of the mining industry in Montana created strong demand for workers. Strong demand for workers was also reported from lumber expansion projects in northern Minnesota and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan and prison construction in the Upper Peninsula. Nevertheless, skilled labor cost increases in the district remained at a moderate 3 to 4 percentage point range, with most of the increases due to fringe benefit costs. Unemployment rates in the district were roughly unchanged in the reporting period from the corresponding period a year ago. Consumer Spending Consumer spending on general merchandise has continued to be strong. One retailer reports that October sales were 8.5 percent higher than a year ago in comparable stores and total sales in October were 16.2 percent higher than in October 1988. An appliance retailer reports that October sales in comparable stores were 5 percent higher than a year ago. Inventories were reported to be at acceptable levels. Retailers were cautiously optimistic about year-end sales. Automobile sales have continued to show large month-to-month variability. Dealers for one domestic line report that sales in October were 25 percent lower than a year ago, but sales in the three-month period from August to October were up 25 percent from the same period a year ago. Inventories of cars and trucks were at unusually high levels. Reports indicated that conditions in the used car market were good. Housing activity has been basically unchanged from last year's levels. The number of new housing permits issued in Minnesota in September was 10 percent lower than in August but roughly the same as in September 1988. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area, the number of new housing permits fell by 25 percent from August to September but was 3 percent higher than in September 1988. Housing sales in this metropolitan area in October were about 2 percent higher than in October 1988. A sharp reduction in construction of homes priced above $250,000 was reported. Considerable home remodeling activity was also reported. A director reports weakness in commercial construction in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area with few new projects being started and only previously committed projects going forward. Tourist spending has continued to be strong. Tourist associations in the district report many inquiries for the upcoming season. Most areas near the Canadian border reported strong demand from Canadian shoppers and tourists. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity has been generally mixed. There has been continued softness in the computer, electronics, and defense industries. Suppliers to the aircraft and aerospace industries report strong demand. Reports from the capital goods sector were mixed. Most manufacturers report to be investing cautiously in capital equipment, preferring to pay down debts unless the equipment can reduce operating costs immediately. Lingering drought worries also slowed equipment purchases by farmers in parts of the district, although ranchers showed signs of increasing their investments in capital goods. The expansion of the mining and lumber industries contributed to the fairly good demand for capital investment in the western and northern portions of the district. Resource-Related Industries Resource-related industries have been doing fairly well. Conditions in agriculture were generally good, except in the western part of North Dakota, where fall precipitation was sparse. In Montana, the wheat and barley crop production was reported to have doubled over last year's levels. Farmland values continued to increase; prime corn and soybean lands in southern Minnesota sold for about $1,500 per acre, with some instances of sales at $2,000 per acre. These prices are considerably higher than the depressed levels earlier in the decade. Cattle prices were reported to be high, and ranchers were optimistic about their prospects. Expansion in the lumber industry was brisk with new construction and expansion plans in all the lumber producing areas of the district. The mining industry also reports strong activity.