Overview There are several indications that the level of business activity in the Fifth District has stabilized somewhat over the past few weeks. Reports from manufacturers continue negative, on balance, but most industries appear to have arrested the decline or even made some gains in new orders. Overall, labor market trends are also mixed, recalls and longer workweeks in some areas and industries largely offset by shorter weeks and further layoffs in others. The retail sector remains weak by nearly all accounts. There is virtually no evidence that seasonal fall buying has materialized. Mixed reports come, as well, from the construction and housing sectors. There has clearly been no decisive move by either. Loan demand remains generally soft, including commercial and industrial, consumer installment, and real estate. The Manufacturing Sector Our latest survey of manufacturers suggests minor declines in shipments, new orders, and order backlogs in recent weeks. In addition, inventories shrank further, particularly materials, and employment was down noticeably. Nearly all of this observed weakness, however, was concentrated in the paper, primary metals, and shipbuilding industries. The textile industry appears to have made some significant gains while most other manufacturing groups at least held their own over the month. A respondent in the paper industry attributed the weakness at his establishment to a growing displacement of paper bags by plastic. He does not see the weakness as a cyclical phenomenon. It does appear that manufacturing employment declined further in October despite several isolated reports of recalls from temporary layoff. Shorter workweeks and further temporary layoffs predominate in the manufacturing sector. Coal mining areas of the District continue to report weakness in mining employment. What support the labor markets are getting is coming from government, services, and some isolated manufacturing sectors or concerns. Manufacturers' inventories remain generally above desired levels, as does current plant and equipment capacity. Prices received at the manufacturing level are reported to have declined in the latest survey period, while prices paid were essentially unchanged and employee compensation rose, although narrowly. Retail Sales Our information suggests that retail sales deteriorated further in October, at least after allowing for seasonal factors. The failure of the expected fall buying surge to develop may be the principal element here. Retail inventories appear to have declined modestly and remain generally within acceptable limits. Prices at the retail level showed no change according to respondents. Housing and Construction There have been scattered reports of recent gains in construction activity, particularly in the residential sector. It would clearly be premature to pronounce this a recovery, however. There are indications that the stock of houses on the market, both new and older, has declined somewhat. There is a sense among the financial community, however, that the expectation of even lower mortgages rates in the near future is now a mild deterrent to some prospective buyers. The Financial Sector There is little indication that loan demand is recovering. Further inventory reduction in the manufacturing and retail sectors is moderating business loan activity. Consumers continue to pay down installment debt. Mortgage activity, although showing signs of life in some areas, remains very weak. Delinquencies do not seem to be a problem, although there is continuing concern over the rising number of personal bankruptcies. Our information suggests that banks are generally retaining 50 percent or more of the maturing "all-savers" funds and most of that is being rolled into CDs, many of them of 30 months or longer maturities. Expectations Manufacturers remain among the most optimistic of respondents. A substantial majority expects improvement in the level of activity nationally, locally, and in their respective firms over the next six months. Retailers are much more cautious, anticipating little change at all over that period. Bankers, also, are very cautious. Most respondents in this sector see loan demand increasing little, if at all, in the near future. Agriculture The District's prospective crop output as of October 1 continued to point to significantly smaller crops of tobacco, peanuts, and cotton than last year. Record corn and soybean crops are anticipated, however. The 1982 flue-cured tobacco marketing season was marked by record average prices and better quality leaf than in 1981. Total volume of sales was down 12 percent from last season, however, and total value of marketings was almost $100 million or 6 percent below a year ago. Loan receipts were up sharply in all flue-cured belts.