Overview Forecasts of fourth quarter economic activity have been scaled down. Steel and automobile manufacturers plan inventory reductions this quarter. The housing outlook remains bearish. Personal consumption expenditure is expected to grow modestly. Manufacturers expect shipments, inventories, backlogs, employment, and hours worked to decline in November, while orders stabilize at the low October level. Automobile, steel, and capital goods producers face continuing weak sales. District unemployment rates exceed the national rate as additional plants are being shut down and workers laid off. Some firms are obtaining labor-cost concessions. National Outlook Economists who attended the Fourth District roundtable meeting on October 29 at this Bank scaled down their forecasts of economic activity from their June forecasts. The median of 30 forecasts now shows a 2.6 percent annual rate of increase in real GNP in the fourth quarter, 3.1 percent in the first quarter, 3.0 percent in the second quarter, and 4.0 percent in the second half of 1983. Only three of the forecasts show declines in the fourth quarter, and none show declines in the first and second quarters. However, several of the roundtable participants prepared their forecasts before third quarter preliminary GNP data were available, and some of those now expect a decline in the fourth quarter. The median forecast shows the Implicit Price Deflator accelerating to a rate of 6.1 percent in the fourth quarter and then moving to 5.6 percent in the first quarter and 5.9 percent in the second quarter. The median forecast has unemployment averaging 10 percent in the fourth quarter, 9.8 percent in the first and 9.7 percent in the second. Inventories Additional inventory decumulation appears likely this quarter. A steel firm forecasts steel mill inventories will fall an additional 1 million tons by year-end, bringing to 4 million tons the total mill inventory reduction in 1982. The firm, however, expects no further decline in customer steel inventories. Automobile producers plan to reduce their inventories in the fourth quarter. A steel firm expects truck inventories to be reduced in the fourth and first quarters. However, a major producer of consumer electrical durables says inventories are not excessive at the manufacturer or retail level. Fourth District observers expect inventory liquidation to be complete by year-end. Construction Housing industry economists are quite bearish on prospects for starts. Interest rates are not yet down to attractive levels, consumers are cautious, the inventory of unsold houses is large, and houses have lost their appeal as an investment vehicle. One thrift industry economist forecasts 1.09 million (a.r.) housing starts in the fourth quarter and 1.33 million for 1983. A producer of insulation reports only a seasonal rise in orders and expects fewer than 1.3 million starts in 1983. A bank economist predicts that, because of the lag in their decline, mortgage interest rates will not be down to attractive levels until spring. Consumer Spending Personal consumption expenditure remains sluggish. Real PCE nationally will increase 3.5 percent (saar) in the fourth quarter, 2.5 percent in the first quarter, and 3.7 percent in the second quarter, according to the median forecast of economists at this District's roundtable meeting. Spending is retarded by high unemployment, sluggish growth of real disposable personal income, and declines in real house price, but encouraged by declines in inflation and consumer interest rates and the rally in stock and bond prices. Overwithholding of the July tax cut should result in larger tax refunds early next year, stimulating consumer spending in the second quarter. A major producer of household consumables says their real sales were up in the third quarter and that the consumer is buying. A major producer of consumer electrical durables reports a sharp rise in early October orders compared with a year ago, following months of declines. An official with a large department store reports that recent improvement in sales has prompted officials to raise their near-term sales forecasts from September. Manufacturing Preliminary results from the November survey of Fourth District manufacturers indicate continued weakening in that sector. Shipments and inventories are expected to decline more in November than in October, while employment and hours worked are expected to decline slightly. New orders are expected to stabilize after falling in October. Backlogs fell in October and are expected to fall again in November. Automobile and capital goods sales are weak. A major auto manufacturer reports domestic producers have reduced their fourth quarter planned output to a 4-3/4 million unit annual rate. According to a major capital goods producer, orders are weak, and no pickup is expected until the second quarter. He says output of capital goods is falling more than capital spending because export sales are falling more sharply, in response to strong appreciation of the dollar. A diversified producer of capital goods expects his real sales to decline 8.7 percent (a.r.) in the fourth quarter and rise 14.4 percent (a.r.) in the first quarter, after which they will still be 25 percent below the level of four years ago. The steel industry is in great distress. A major steel firm asserts that falling auto production and extreme weakness in capital goods output are undermining steel consumption and extending the period of customer inventory liquidation. Steel mills are closing plants to cut costs and lengthen the time span before huge operating losses produce financial collapse. An early cyclical recovery in the economy is essential to preserve the viability of the U.S. steel industry. Another steel firm expects no increase in steel consumption in 1983, but thinks shipments will improve because steel user inventories will stop falling. Labor Market Conditions Labor markets in the District remain weak. Unemployment rates are higher than the national rate, as temporary and permanent layoffs and plant shutdowns continue. A major steel firm is shutting down a seamless pipe mill for three weeks, idling 500 workers. At one steel plant, 40 percent of the hourly employees have been reduced to a four-day work week. Another steel firm has suspended all operations at a plant for an expected three months, laying off 450 workers. Another steel firm is shutting down two blast furnaces and other facilities indefinitely and laying off 900 more workers. A foundry that has been operating at 25 percent of capacity is closing for six weeks. A duplicating-machine-parts plant that employs 300 workers closed permanently after union members rejected a three-year package of concessions. Some firms are obtaining labor cost concessions. A major manufacturer of aircraft and automotive components obtained givebacks worth $1.77 per hour in a new three-year contract. A large producer of machine tools obtained substantial givebacks in a three-year contract for one plant and gave no pledges of job security. Workers at another automotive parts manufacturer recently authorized union leaders to open concessions negotiations with the company. Most major steel firms in the Fourth District have imposed 5 percent to 10 percent pay reductions on non-union, salaried workers.