Overview While business conditions in the Tenth District remain very weak, there are some indications that the recession has bottomed out. Although retail sales deteriorated in October, the upcoming holiday season is producing cautious optimism. Purchasing agents indicate that they are no longer reducing inventories, and auto dealers seem to expect increasing demand as interest rates continue to fall. Although interest rates on farm loans are declining, bleak income prospects are producing financial stress among Tenth District farmers. Prime rates charged by commercial banks are falling and total loan demand is flat, as is overall deposit growth. Retail Trade Most retailers in the Tenth District report only modest sales gains in the first 10 months of 1982 compared to last year. Sales deteriorated substantially in October with sales of recreation and leisure merchandise remaining the only bright spot. Merchandise costs have not changed appreciably for retailers in recent months, but most are heavily involved in promotional price cutting. Inventories of merchandise are adequate for the coming holiday buying season, but are high relative to the rest of 1982. Most retailers remain cautiously optimistic about sales in November and December of this year. Auto Dealers Auto sales are somewhat weaker than at this time last year but have picked up recently. Large cars are selling to the more affluent clientele, but small car demand is quite weak. Recent interest rate declines have yet to affect automobile dealers. Rates on consumer loans have begun to ease; however, they have lagged behind declines in the prime and other market rates. Floorplan financing costs remain high. Except for 1982-model carryover, dealer inventories are either stable, at a minimum level, or are declining. Each respondent indicated optimism about the outlook for sales and expressed the belief that declines in interest rates should free some pent-up auto demand. Purchasing Agents Almost all purchasing agents report input prices have fallen relative to a year ago. The amount of the decline varies from industry to industry with a precipitous drop (10-25 percent) occurring in the cost of metals, polyethylene film and wood products. The outlook for the next few months indicates a bottoming out of the downward trend in input prices. All firms forecast inputs to remain accessible into the first quarter. Clouding the horizon, though, is the possibility of further declines in the number of suppliers for a few inputs. While a few companies continue to reduce their inventory levels, the majority are satisfied with existing stocks. Plant utilization varies widely, with some plants operating at less than two-thirds of capacity. Agriculture Harvest progress in the Tenth District varies widely from state to state, with little damage reported as a result of frost occurring in some areas. The corn harvest is almost 75 percent complete in most states while soybeans and sorghum are lagging behind. Corn and bean production is expected to be above last year's, and sorghum production will likely be less than a year ago. Grain storage capacity appears adequate throughout the District, but when harvest is over all available storage facilities will have been utilized. The planting and growth of winter wheat is lagging slightly behind normal, except in Oklahoma where the wheat is in urgent need of rainfall. District bankers continue to be receptive to farm loan requests backed by positive cash flows. Interest rates on farm loans have recently declined throughout the District and are averaging between 14 and 15 percent with further declines expected. The interest rate reductions are welcomed by hard pressed farmers and rural businessmen. However, bleak income prospects continue to add to the financial stress experienced by Tenth District farmers. Banking Developments Reported loan demand is generally characterized as flat throughout the Tenth District. Demand for construction loans is up somewhat, while energy-related demand is down. Demand for other commercial and industrial loans, consumer loans, real estate loans, and agricultural loans appears steady. Most bankers report continuing modest deterioration of loan quality. Prime rates charged by the banks surveyed range from 12 to 13 percent. Rates have fallen as much as 150 basis points from last month. Virtually all the bankers questioned expect future declines. Overall deposit growth is flat, or slightly up. NOW accounts, large CD's, and smaller saver accounts have experienced some growth. Demand deposits have continued to decline somewhat at most banks. Banks in which All-Savers deposits are a significant fraction of total deposits report that a large portion of the maturing All- Savers has been retained, either through rollover or through transfer to other types of deposits. Virtually all the banks surveyed intend to offer, and aggressively market, the new money market account being formulated by the DIDC. Opinions vary as to the expected sources of funds for this new account.