Summary The region of the Seventh District continues in a deep recession. The expected "turn" in general activity has not occurred. On the contrary, most indicators are still declining. However, morale has been boosted by recent strength in both the equity and debt capital markets. The election results are not expected to significantly affect the near-term economic outlook. Easier mortgage credit has increased sales of residential properties, but from a very low level. Nonresidential construction is heading down. Output of durable goods has declined further, but there are signs of a leveling in nondurables, such as paper. More plants are being closed, some permanently. Layoffs and terminations of workers are causing widespread distress. State and local governments are cutting programs, reflecting financial strain. Retail sales remain weak, but some merchants are encouraged by trends in recent weeks. Large harvests and weak demand for grain are placing additional downward pressure on crop prices and income. District farmland values declined 5 percent in the third quarter, and 16 percent in the past 12 months. Purchasing Managers Pessimistic October reports of purchasing managers associations in both Chicago and Milwaukee show further substantial declines in employment, output, new orders, and backlogs. Rapid deterioration was first evident in these reports in the fourth quarter of 1981. Since then the downtrend appeared to be losing momentum at times, thereby raising hopes for a turnaround. But recent months have shown no glimmer of improvement. Inventories continue to be reduced generally, but are still viewed as excessive in some companies. Order backlogs have virtually evaporated for many. Starting last February, prices paid have averaged lower every month, an unprecedented development since World War II. (A year ago price increases substantially exceeded decreases.) An interesting but disturbing development in October was a moderate deterioration in vendor performance, attributed to suppliers that have contracted or closed operations. Financial Pressures Most District manufacturers and retailers are reporting either reduced profits or losses for the third quarter. Losses are cutting deeply into net worth in some cases, and, along with heavy debts, are causing reductions in credit ratings, and associated increases in interest costs. Some companies are reporting losses and reducing dividends for the first time in decades, since the depths of the Great Depression in some cases. Managements stressing "survival strategy" are reducing corporate staff, and contracting operations by selling or closing divisions. The used equipment market has been hit by auctions of items from closed plants, especially in the farm and construction equipment sector. Capital expenditure programs commonly are being cut back, even when acquisitions would greatly increase efficiency, e.g. automated office systems. Price Cutting Widespread price cutting prevails to an extent unknown since the 1930s. Discounting is especially "horrendous" in steel, nonferrous metals, and building materials. Railroads and truckers are engaged in "rate wars" now possible under deregulation. Retailers are offering sharp cuts from list on "designer" apparel, appliances, and current books. There are also numerous retail bankruptcy or "liquidation" sales, some of which seem to be on a sustaining basis. Meanwhile, costs of utility services, local taxes, insurance, and medical care continue to advance at a rapid pace. Motor Vehicles October auto sales declined substantially from September after seasonal adjustment. After several reductions in plans, fourth quarter auto output will be well below last year's poor level. Truck output will be about even. U.S. output is even weaker than sales because of increased net imports of "domestic" vehicles from Canada, about four times last year's rate. Independent suppliers of parts are in deep trouble. Major captive finance companies recently reduced finance charges substantially. Some banks also advertise lower charges, but most banks are not vigorously seeking auto loans. Although auto dealers attack high interest charges as the main impediment to sales, many potential customers are deterred by high prices and concern over reliability of new domestic models. Capital Goods The District's important capital goods industries are in a crisis. Some large, diversified firms are drastically contracting operations. Some have stopped making certain parts in favor of purchases from outside. Plant closings appear to be accelerating. Almost without exception, demand for capital goods is weak with no sign of improvement, not even for parts and operating supplies which usually signal the early stages of an uptrend. Some capital goods producers anticipate no significant change for the better until well into 1983, perhaps into 1984. Steel Demand for steel has declined further against normal seasonal trends. Chicago-area steel plants are operating at 50-55 percent of capacity compared to 38 percent for the industry. Chicago and Detroit have been producing 40 percent of the nation's new steel, up from 31 percent a year ago. Partly this reflects less import penetration in the Midwest, but also relatively more efficient plants. Motor vehicle demand for steel, counted upon earlier to boost total output in the current quarter, is being reduced further. Oil and gas industry demand, insatiable a year ago, is now the weakest sector. Housing Home builders report an increase in both traffic and confirmed sales in the past six weeks. Mortgage rates have declined about three points since last spring. Because of cold weather housing starts in the District will not be helped by easier mortgage credit until next spring. The recent expansion of S&L powers to make consumer installment loans and business loans may direct a substantial portion of any savings inflows away from housing. Officials of some very large S&Ls have vowed never to get "into that fix again", i.e. total reliance on long-term assets funded by short- term liabilities. Agriculture Progress of the District's large crop harvests varies widely. Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan harvesting is well ahead of normal. In Iowa and Wisconsin, however, harvesting is behind schedule. Crop prices are seriously depressed, reflecting the record harvest and reduced projections of both domestic utilization and export demand. Depressed conditions in agriculture continue to exert downward pressure on farmland values. District agricultural bankers report that farmland values declined 5 percent in the third quarter, and 16 percent in the year ending in September. Further declines are expected, in part reflecting financial pressures that are forcing some farmers to liquidate capital assets.