Summary The Eleventh District economy is still reeling from the declines in energy prices. The drilling rig count has plummeted and oil and gas extraction employment has also dropped sharply. Although construction contract values rebounded slightly in April, their trend has been downward this year. Manufacturers' orders continue to fall in response to ebbing activity in construction and the energy industry. Retail and auto sales are declining. Assets at large banks are unchanged from a year earlier, as a result of sluggishness in loan demand. District agricultural prices remain below those of last year. Manufacturing Manufacturing firms in the District are reducing output and laying off workers. Paper and allied products manufacturers, particularly those that supply packaging, say their orders are down. Chemical companies report fairly strong demand for products sold as intermediate inputs to firms serving national markets, but respondents note that demand is weak for final products marketed in the District. Among stone, clay and glass producers, orders from drillers and oilfield service companies have plummeted, and construction-related demand is also off. Ebbing construction activity in much of the District has stopped sales growth for lumber and wood producers, but few report absolute declines in orders. Both primary metals and non-electrical machinery manufacturers are retrenching sharply in the face of falling demand from the energy sector. Fabricated metals orders are also down, particularly those from construction and electronics firms. Electronic equipment market report slowly growing semiconductor sales, but orders for other computer-linked products are slipping. Construction Although District construction contract values rebounded slightly in April, the general trend since the start of the year has been down. Nonresidential construction activity remains significantly below a year earlier. Office vacancy rates in the District continue to climb. Residential contract values are also well below a year earlier and multifamily permits fell hard in April. There is much evidence of overbuilding in multifamily housing. Energy Most energy industries are curtailing their activities in response to the fall in oil prices. The drilling rig count in the District states has declined 65 percent since June 1985 and extraction employment has dropped sharply. Leading indicators of future drilling are also off, with drilling permits 63 percent below last year's level and the seismic crew count down 50 percent. Automobile Sales Automobile sales are slipping throughout the District. The largest declines are in the energy-dependent portions of the region, where year-to-year decreases are as high as 30 percent. Dealers link some of the decline to what they perceive as a normal cycle in automobile sales, but they believe most of the downturn is tied to the weakness of the regional economy. Inventories are up but, as yet, they are not at desired levels. Retail Sales Retail sales also are declining in the District, with revenues turning down even in areas with only limited direct ties to the energy industry. Retailers report that inventories are being held at desired levels, despite sluggish sales, because of effective monitoring and control. Price increases of some imported goods are expected in the third quarter but. so far, the prices of Japanese and European goods have been fairly stable. Banking Weakness in loan demand has induced large District banks to shift their asset portfolios toward treasury securities. In May, treasury securities grew significantly over their year-earlier level while the volume of business loans declined absolutely. Real estate loans continued to expand, but at a slower rate than last year. Deposits have been falling at large banks, led by declines in holdings of large certificates of deposit. In response to declining deposits, District banks have increased their reliance on borrowings. Deposits have continued to rise rapidly at thrifts. Agriculture In District agriculture, livestock and crop prices are down from the levels of last year, but they have remained steady in recent weeks. Grain and cotton prices are expected to fall. The reduction in grain prices, however, will reduce costs for livestock producers. Income prospects in District agriculture are more uncertain than usual because of unresolved questions about the extent to which government payments will offset the expected decline in grain and cotton prices.