Overview Directors report a generally strong regional economy, which includes depressed pockets such as the coal fields in West Virginia as well as booming areas such as those around Washington, D.C., and Charlotte, North Carolina. Production and final sales of goods have been about flat in recent weeks, but most service industries, especially those tied to tourism, are doing very well. New orders for manufactured goods are up, and most manufacturers are optimistic about where the economy will be in six months. At S&Ls, mortgage applications are still heavy, despite a rise in rates, while depositors are shifting funds to shorter maturities. In the agricultural sector, drought conditions exist in several areas. Consumer Spending Major department stores report only a slight increase in activity in recent weeks as compared with the surge in sales they reported several weeks ago. Sales of nondurable goods continue strong, but sales of big ticket durable goods, such as video and stereo components, are down somewhat. Most of the respondents expect increases in real retail sales in the months ahead. Manufacturing and Mining Manufacturing and mining activity are little changed from a month ago, according to our survey of business conditions. In coal mining, however, one large firm has just closed down some mines. In manufacturing, 58 percent of the respondents report no change in employment, and 65 percent report no change in the workweek. The remaining percentages are fairly evenly split between those reporting increases and those reporting decreases. Forty percent of the manufacturers report increases in new orders, but an even larger percentage report increases in shipments. Consequently, unfilled orders are reported as down by 30 percent of manufacturers, as compared with the 20 percent who report increases. Manufacturers report prices of both materials and finished goods are about the sane as a month ago. Looking ahead six months, 70 percent of manufacturers expect general business conditions to improve. By then, 37 percent expect capital expenditures to be above current levels, as compared to 14 percent who foresee reductions. Within the manufacturing sector, textile activity remains mostly unchanged while apparel shipments and new orders have increased over a month ago. Import competition remains the main concern of apparel manufacturers. Furniture manufacturers report heavier-than-normal inventories for this time of year, so they plan to close down for two weeks instead of one week in early July. According to furniture manufacturers, their excess inventories are due to lower-than- expected sales, and to retailers holding less in stock. Manufacturers of machinery report an average capacity utilization rate of 51 percent, the lowest of the industries surveyed. On the brighter side, manufacturers of stone, clay and glass products, fabricated metals, and transportation equipment all report increased shipments, orders, and levels of employment. Financial Deposit activity at savings and loans is generally reported to be normal. There are, however, many reports of depositors shifting funds from longer term accounts to 6-to-12 month accounts. Most respondents feel the shift reflects their depositors' impressions that interest rates are likely to move up in the near future. Meanwhile, mortgage rates are rising, with several reports of increases from bottoms of around 9-3/4 percent a few weeks ago to current rates of around 11 percent on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages. Mortgage loan applicants continue to experience long delays in obtaining approvals. The delays, often 60 to 90 days, or twice the time it took a year ago, are attributable in part to the time required to obtain appraisals, credit reports, and title searches. Much of the heavy volume is due to applications for refinancing mortgages, but first-time mortgage demand also continues very strong. Agriculture Below normal rainfall remains a major problem facing crop producers around the District. Although precipitation over the last few weeks has brought relief to some areas, soil moisture levels remain well below normal. Small grain harvests, already well underway, are producing below normal yields. Hay and pasture conditions are generally fair to poor. Recent rains have kept most of the corn crop in good condition and tobacco is also reportedly not experiencing significant drought stress in most of the District at this time, although some corn and tobacco areas are very dry. Livestock producers continue to face low prices. Beef and pork prices have been held down by large supplies. Poultry prices on the other hand, although also experiencing some downward pressure, should be sufficiently high to yield adequate profit margins, given the lower costs of grain.