Summary The Fourth District economy continues its pattern of slow growth with weakness in manufacturing and energy and strength in housing. Retail sales are a bit better than last quarter. Unemployment remains above the national level despite employment growing faster than nationally during the last twelve months. Manufacturing activity continues to be sluggish, and the energy industry is depressed. Housing activity is robust. Real estate and consumer installment lending is strong but commercial and industrial lending is down. Consumer Spending Retailers in the District report generally better sales in the second quarter than in the first quarter. Although two major department store chains differ in the amount of increase during the current quarter, they both agreed that first quarter sales were below plans and the sales in the past two months have improved. General merchandise inventories are reported to be at normal levels. Charge sales at department stores appear to be increasing as a percent of total sales and one firm noted a significant increase in delinquent accounts since the beginning of this year. Retailers reported that imported prices have increased very little in response to dollar depreciation, although one expects price increases in the third or fourth quarters. Area auto dealers reported much the same story as other retailers. Sales in recent months have been better than the first quarter, but still well below levels of last year. Inventory levels at domestic auto dealers range from slightly above normal to "heavy," but only one dealer expressed any concern over inventories. None of the dealers contacted expected additional near-term price increases, but did mention that past increases have been completely passed on to the consumer. Labor Market Conditions Relative to a year earlier, Ohio employment in May has risen by 2.55 percent, somewhat better than the national gain of 2.03 percent. Nevertheless, the unemployment rate in Ohio was unchanged from its year earlier level and at 8.1 percent (s.a.) remains well above the national rate. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity continues to be sluggish. Manufacturers in this District report new orders continue to grow but at a substantially slower pace than in April. The pace of production was also slower than in April. Order backlogs are up slightly after several months of decline. Employment in manufacturing appears on balance to be flat. Inventories of raw materials and finished goods continue their slow decline. Prices paid by manufacturers for commodities, components and equipment rose much more rapidly in May than they have in the last year or so. A major steel producer in this District has laid off several hundred production workers, in large measure because of weak demand from the oil and gas industry. The firm expects the workers to be out of work at least throughout the summer. Energy Coal, oil, and natural gas industries in this District are depressed. A major oil firm expects crude oil prices to fluctuate between $12 and $18 per barrel and to average $15 per barrel over the next three or four years. The firm has cut its exploration budget by almost 60 percent from last year and would cut it further except that active drilling projects can't be cancelled. Total capital expenditures are being cut by about one-third from last year. Housing and Construction The pace of housing activity in the Fourth District is high and builders, real estate brokers, and mortgage lenders all expect that the strong first-half pace will persist for the balance of 1986. However, there is a general consensus among market participants that lower mortgage rates would probably be required for the high level of housing construction to be sustained into 1987. Real estate brokers continue to complain that a typical mortgage loan application now requires more than 60 days to process. Apparently, mortgage lenders are understaffed but do not expect the high mortgage volume to last long enough to justify expanding staff. Mortgage lenders are accommodating the longer processing times by extending their loan commitments from the standard 30 days to 60 days. Long processing times are not causing a higher level of application cancellations. So far, the suspension of the FHA mortgage-insurance program has had no visible effect on mortgage markets in this region, and FHA lending still represents approximately 12-15 percent of total mortgage applications. In late May, mortgage lenders increased their mortgage charges slightly by increasing closing points by 1 point and adding 1/4 to 1/2 percentage point to the mortgage rate. The 15-year mortgage is becoming less popular as borrowers return to the 30-year mortgage. The adjustable rate mortgage also continues to lose favor, falling to less than 10 percent of new loans by many lenders in this District. Commercial Banking Overall loan demand continues to be flat at District banks. Total loans outstanding at large banks fell slightly over the last month even though real estate and consumer installment loans rose at a double-digit pace. Commercial and industrial loans outstanding contracted somewhat, reflecting softness in the demand for business loans. Other types of loans also fell at large District banks. Lenders do not anticipate any significant pickup in business loan demand over the next few months, but they do expect relatively good growth in consumer installment and real estate loans.