Summary Ninth District conditions appear to have improved somewhat during the second quarter. Some employment indicators moved favorably in April. Some components of consumer spending may have softened a bit during May, but big-ticket durables remained strong. Some hard- pressed non-metro areas are being helped by increased tourist spending. Resource-related industry performance remained mixed: extractive sectors suffered while wood products sectors prospered. And while both crop and export conditions improved in the agriculture sector, little else did. Employment Labor market indicators picked up a bit in April. The district's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate fell to 6.2 percent in April, from 6.6 percent in March. The Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area experienced a larger-than-seasonal decline in its unemployment rate, too. Unadjusted figures from state employment services show large, albeit partially seasonal, employment gains and unemployment rate declines in all district states. Only the Upper Peninsula of Michigan exhibited little improvement. Some good news is finally evident in the manufacturing sector. Both of the Dakotas logged small increases in manufacturing employment during April. And while one computer company announced another layoff in Minnesota, it was more than compensated for by a callback issued by another computer firm. Consumer Spending Retail sales of general merchandise may have softened a bit between April and May, according to two large district retailers. Still, one of them recorded a 9 percent year-over-year increase this May and notes that the falling dollar is helping to stimulate substitution of American-made goods for Japanese goods. A spate of home sales has stimulated heavy purchasing of home items. A chain of department stores reports that Father's Day sales of menswear were good. Another chain reports that neither its inventories nor its credit sales are excessive. Bank directors again note the slack retail conditions in small cities and towns, particularly in western agricultural and energy-producing regions. Auto sales appear to have improved in May. One large domestic manufacturer has had particular success selling trucks in this district. Its truck sales were 13 percent higher this May than last. Currently, neither its truck nor its car inventories are excessive, and the firm is optimistic about third quarter sales. As in the case of retail sales, Bank directors note slack auto sales in some non- metro areas, including Miles City, Montana, and parts of western Wisconsin. Outside of North Dakota and Montana, housing activity appears to have stayed fairly strong. In both Minneapolis and St. Paul, home sales during April and May were way above their levels a year earlier. Low interest rates, economic growth, and good weather have all helped there. Realtors in South Dakota also have found much buyer interest, particularly in the eastern half of the state and its Sioux Falls metro area. New homebuilding is down from last year in Fargo, North Dakota. Residential construction in the oil and gas producing western part of the state has declined substantially. Tourism Many non-metro areas in this district are hoping that more summer tourism will help stimulate their economies. Early reports indicate that this is happening. A branch Bank director from Montana says that reservations at Yellowstone Park are already up 20 percent from last year. Campgrounds overflowed during the fishing opener in the Indianhead region of northwestern Wisconsin, where inquiries about summer travel are running far ahead of last year's pace. In anticipation of a good season, there has been a lot of resort expansion in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, where inquiries are also up from a year ago. Resource-Related Industries Performance in large resource-related sectors has continued to be mixed. Wood products, including pulp, paper, and lumber are all fairly strong. The new paper mill at Quinnesec, in Michigan's Upper Peninsula, is very busy. The high level of building activity nationwide has created demand for lumber and other building products, such as waferboard. A director does report timber industry concerns about a Forest Service plan to restrict the allowable harvest in northwestern Montana, though. Falling energy prices have greatly reduced prospects for oil and gas exploration in Montana and western North Dakota. A Bank director notes that only 9 rigs are operating in Montana now, whereas 23 were operating last year, and that was way below the peak number. Coal prices and production are not being helped by low oil prices. One bright mining spot is noted, though: A platinum mine is opening in Montana. Agriculture Recent news in the agricultural sector has been mixed. The Minnesota farm price index rose 3 percent between April and May, yet was still 6 percent below its level a year earlier. The fall of both farm prices and the U.S. dollar should help stimulate export sales; soybean exports are already up over last year. Exports are particularly important to Minnesota and North Dakota, which ranked seventh and eighth, respectively, among farm exporting states last year. Good weather has allowed timely planting and development of District crops. Ground moisture levels in Montana were the best in five years. Overall field conditions are noted as above average in both Montana and North Dakota. The much-publicized dairy herd buyout program has yet to cut milk production much. Cattle producers are reported to be displeased with the buyout's attendant herd slaughter, which is believed to have put downward pressure or already low cattle prices. Previously declining dairy land values are said to be likely to have bottomed out.