Summary Expansion in activity in the District apparently is continuing, but still trails the nation. Respondents report consumer products doing better, but industrial markets disappointing. The strongest sector is housing, which is booming in most areas. Sales of related consumer goods, including appliances and home furnishings, are also strong. Auto sales are at a high level, but not growing, and imports have made further inroads into auto markets. Office and retail construction continue vigorous. Contracts for nonresidential building are about even with last year. Demand for gypsum board, cement, and other building materials is very strong. Capital goods generally remain weak. Steel shipments are about flat. Crop planting conditions were favorable, and abundant moisture will get crops off to a good start, suggesting continued downward pressure on grain prices. Housing Residential construction, both homes and apartments, remains strong. Housing starts are sharply higher than last year. Resales of existing homes continue at very high levels, but the rise may be slowing. The surge in new loan applications and refinancings, in response to the lower mortgage rates, has caused major processing problems for area lenders and appraisers, and substantial delays in closings. The rise in mortgage interest rates in the past month appears to have accelerated refinancings by those who think they may have "missed the bottom." Fixed-rate, 30-year mortgages commonly are around 10.5 percent, compared with under 10 percent earlier this year. Some lenders are quoting several sets of rates and points, with higher rates corresponding to lower points and vice versa. Strong demand has pushed housing prices significantly higher in some favored areas. Realtors report instances of two or more buyers bidding for a house above its list price. Production of mobile homes has been higher than a year ago in the District, mainly in Indiana, in contrast with a decline for the U.S. Nonresidential Construction Additional office buildings continue to be announced for the Chicago area, despite substantial vacancies and large concessions to new tenants. Office construction activity remains at a high level, especially in Chicago and Indianapolis. Scattered strikes have disrupted work in Chicago. (Strikes have been uncommon in recent years.) Retail construction is vigorous in suburban areas where population has been rising. Concessions are offered on retail leases. Some expect the pace of leasing to slow by year-end. Demand for small to medium-sized industrial buildings, particularly multi- use structures, is strong in some Chicago suburbs readily accessible to major highways. Contracts for nonresidential construction, District-wide, are about flat. Highway and public works activity are expected to be up this year from an improved level. Skilled building trade workers are in short supply. Many such workers retired or left the District in recent bleak years. Some are said to be returning in response to contractor appeals. A major supplier to ready-mix cement, which cut capacity a few years ago, reports shortages of trucks and drivers. Steel Orders for steel have slipped recently, and output appears likely to remain flat, slightly above last year. Strongest markets are galvanized sheet, especially for motor vehicles; structurals and other contractors' products; and a variety of consumer goods. But "one-third of the economy is missing," meaning most heavy capital goods, utilities, and oil, and gas development. Steel imports are lower than last year but still substantial. Part of the decline in imports reflects the collapse of oil country tubular goods. Steel producers are still losing money. Efforts to raise prices have failed. Cost-cutting continues, including labor costs. One producer is transferring production of structural steel to Chicago from Pittsburgh. The same company has started a new continuous caster at a Chicago-area plant with 3.3 million tons of annual capacity. Inventories are under control, with managements determined to keep them under control. Motor Vehicles The pace of auto sales this year has been near last year's level, with imports accounting for a larger share. More aggressive incentive programs and modest production cutbacks by auto makers appear to have brought domestic inventories back into overall balance. Stocks of imports are generally lean. Sales of light trucks also have been boosted recently by incentive programs. Heavy truck sales remain soft, and will be 15 percent lower this year than in 1985, according to one industry observer. Capital Goods Demand for most mechanical capital goods remains weak. Consolidation of facilities and firms continues. A District manufacturer of heavy cranes sold that division to another heavy equipment maker. Another firm is selling a majority interest in its construction equipment business to a Japanese competitor, which will close the division's headquarters in the District and a manufacturing plant elsewhere. Railroad and farm equipment are down from last year's dismal levels. Additional layoffs, extended summer shutdowns, and plant closings in 3 District states have been announced by farm machinery makers. Oil and gas development equipment has fallen very sharply. Diesel engine demand is below expectations. Buying of lighter construction equipment has risen with home building. Food processing machinery also is higher. Consumer Spending A leading general merchandise retailer reported that sales in May showed the largest gain over a year earlier in 1 1/2 years. Other chains' results also are improved. Inventory levels are about normal. Delinquency rates on credit sales are high but stable. Major home appliance shipments continue to set records, and industry observers expect continued strength. Airline travel is above last year's level but by a smaller margin than earlier in the year. Michigan sources note increased construction activity to meet demands related to increase travel and tourism. An industry analyst projects a 10 percent rise this year in auto miles driven, which would boost demand for a wide range of travel-related products and services. Agriculture Spring crop plantings in the District are winding down on schedule. A favorable planting season and abundant moisture reserves will get crops off to a good start for the critical summer growing months. Despite less acreage, the consensus is that the 1986 crop harvest is again likely to exceed commercial market needs and add to already burdensome (price-depressing) stocks of grain. District pork producers have benefited from a rise in hog prices in recent weeks. Cattle prices remain at depressed levels, in part because of the heavy movement of animals to slaughter following the start of the whole-herd dairy buy-out program in April.