Overview Growth of the southeastern economy slowed since the last reporting period, as indicated by rising unemployment. However, consumption accelerated with strength evident in consumer lending, merchandise and auto sales, and tourism. Activity in single-family residential housing remains robust, but multi-family construction is weakening, and commercial building is generally slower across the region. Dry weather continues to damage farm revenue prospects in parts of the region. Employment and Industry Labor markets weakened for District states except Florida and Georgia from March to April. The region's unemployment rate edged up to 7.9 percent, the third consecutive monthly increase. Textile and apparel employment continued to fall concurrent with the nation's record breaking April $1.4 billion textile and apparel trade deficit. Foreign competition continues to push down domestic textile goods prices; however, contacts report that mill-operating rates have recently turned up in reaction to favorable retail inventory positions. Louisiana's oil industry has shown little improvement, and the state's drilling rig count has reached the lowest level since 1949. Oil field service companies continue to scale down operations; industry spokesmen see little prospect for near-term improvement. More positively, low oil prices are benefiting the region's many tire producers by stimulating auto usage and holding down prices of petroleum-based raw materials. A trade organization reported that regional paper producers recently increased prices in reaction to strong domestic demand for corrugated products. The Southeast's lumber industry is being bolstered by increased demand for residential housing. Lumber prices and domestic output have increased in spite of the growing volume of Canadian imports, according to industry sources. Consumer Spending Department store sales rose 3.7 percent in the first quarter of 1986 over the level a year earlier in metropolitan areas of both the Southeast and the nation. Except for Louisiana and parts of Florida, most metro areas around the District posted gains over year-earlier levels, with Birmingham, Mobile, Nashville, West Palm Beach, and Atlanta registering above-average increases. More recently, a poll of District merchants suggested favorable growth in May, led by strong apparel sales. District merchants are optimistic about the sales outlook for the rest of the summer. District car sales improved substantially in May from weak levels earlier this year, helped by cheaper gas and by dealer special financing and marketing efforts. Even so, year-to-date car sales remain below year-ago levels when sales were brisk. Construction Single-family sales volume and permits issued are up in most of the region except Louisiana since the last reporting period. Realtors in the Miami area reported record-breaking sales during April, while sales in Nashville are slowing slightly. However, multi-family developers throughout the region reported increasing weakness and voiced concern that passage of pending federal tax legislation might lead to construction of fewer apartments and a substantial rise in rents. Commercial construction generally has slowed since early this year, but its strength varies widely across the District. In major office markets such as Atlanta and Tampa, vacancy rates, while still high, are beginning to rise more slowly. Retail construction is reported strong in the Birmingham and Nashville areas. Developers believe pending tax legislation, if passed, will slow commercial construction throughout the region. Financial Services April total loan growth at large banks in the Southeast reversed its year-long decline with business, real estate, and consume credit all registering an upturn. The most dramatic increase came in consumer loans where the rate of growth increased from 14 to 20 percent. Personal loans and second mortgages appear to be spurring the rise in consumer loan growth; the consensus of bankers throughout the District is that auto loans are down because of lower rates being offered by the major U.S. auto manufacturers. A few banks In the Southeast have cut credit card interest rates, but contacts at large regional banks expressed intentions not to follow suit. Tourism Hotel occupancy in Florida is up sharply, and travel agents believe the state will benefit from a dramatic decline in travel to Mediterranean destinations. Georgia's contacts expect double-digit travel revenue increases this summer over 1985. Respondents in Atlanta are especially optimistic as cities are becoming more competitive vis-a-vis ocean beaches in luring vacationers. Tennessee tourist industry representatives expect record-breaking volume as the favorable economic and political environment coincides with that state's bicentennial celebration. Expectations are not as high in Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississippi as in the rest of the District. Agriculture Planting delays and slow growth due to low soil moisture in portions of the Sixth District will likely reduce yields of crops such as corn, soybeans, and peanuts, although recent rainfall has provided relief in the Mississippi Valley. With southeastern farmers planting less acreage, coupled with the prospect for below-average yields, production should be substantially lower this year than last. Moderate declines in the volume of livestock marketing suggest revenue in this sector will also fall below that of 1985. Production of poultry and eggs, on the other hand, has increased, and profits are growing with the rise in market prices and the decline in feed costs.