Summary Despite stronger employment growth, other sectors expanded more slowly in the District than in the nation. This is a reversal of the stronger District growth indicated in the last report. A survey of small District businesses, however, indicated a generally optimistic outlook for the second and third quarters of the year. Bank data show commercial lending expanding more rapidly and consumer lending growing more slowly than in the same period last year. District farmers are enjoying nearly ideal early growing conditions. Farm lending by commercial banks has declined sharply while the deterioration of farm loan portfolios has slowed. Outlook A recent survey of 236 small businesses in the District found a generally favorable outlook on business conditions through September. They judged the second quarter of this year to be a more favorable time to expand operations than they had previously judged the first quarter. The more favorable outlook was due primarily to declining interest rates. Pricing plans appear more restrained as 17 percent of the respondents anticipated price increases in the second quarter versus 25 percent who planned to increase prices in the previous survey last quarter. Employment Although growth in District nonagricultural employment showed some signs of slowing in April, the District's 3.6 percent growth rate exceeded the nation's 2.5 percent rate over the three-month period ending in April. The District growth was spurred by a particularly strong expansion of Missouri's non-manufacturing industries. Employment in the District's manufacturing sector expanded at a 0.8 percent rate in the February through April period. The District unemployment rate declined from 7.9 in March to 7.6 percent in April. Construction Both residential and nonresidential construction activity grew more slowly in the District than in the nation in recent months. District residential building contracts expanded by 1.5 percent during the February-April period, and were 2.3 percent above the year-ago level while the corresponding national figures were 9.1 and 11.1 percent. The pace of residential construction in Missouri was similar to the nation's, but was substantially weaker in Arkansas and Tennessee. Nonresidential building contracts declined by 2.4 percent in the three months through April in the District, but increased by 2.2 percent nationally. Strong growth in Tennessee was offset by declines in Arkansas, Kentucky and Missouri. District nonresidential building contracts were 6.7 percent below year-ago levels compared with a 4.5 percent national decline. Consumer Spending Despite strong growth in Missouri, first quarter retail sales decreased at a 0.5 percent rate in the District compared with a 4.3 percent national rate of increase. First quarter consumer spending in the District was 5.4 percent above the year-ago level, however. Banking Total loans outstanding at large weekly-reporting District banks grew at a 7.0 percent annual rate for the three months ending May. This rate of growth is approximately half that for the same period last year due primarily to sluggish growth in both consumer and real estate lending. In particular, consumer loans grew at a 7.4 percent rate over the three months compared with a 30.2 percent rate for the same period last year. Commercial loans, on the other hand, expanded at a 16.8 percent rate against a 10.3 percent rate over the same three months last year. Agriculture As a result of favorable planting weather followed by timely rains, most District crops have developed at a pace ahead of last year's. Normal weather patterns for the remainder of the crop season would produce near-record harvests of corn, soybeans and other major crops in spite of acreage cutbacks related to the price support programs. At the end of the first quarter, District banks had reduced their agricultural loan volumes by 9.2 percent from a year earlier. The sharpest reductions were made by banks in Missouri where volumes fell by 18.3 percent. Kentucky banks, however, posted a slight increase in agricultural loans. Overdue farm loans at District agricultural banks continued to grow as a percentage of all agricultural loans but did so at a slower pace than last year. While net chargeoffs at agricultural banks in the U.S. continued to increase, chargeoffs were unchanged for District agricultural banks.