Overview Business conditions remain generally weak in the Tenth District, although pockets of optimism and strength do exist. Recent weakness in retail sales is expected to continue into the fourth quarter, although automobile dealers evince some guarded optimism. Industrial materials prices are still falling, but are expected to stabilize soon. Manufacturers are attempting to trim their inventories further, and retail inventories are also viewed as somewhat excessive. Although there are some signs of improved profitability in livestock production, agricultural loans are being put under increasing scrutiny. Total loan demand at commercial banks remains flat, with some weakness evident in energy sector loans. Retail Trade Except in the energy producing areas of the Tenth District, retailers report small declines in nominal sales in the first four months of 1982 relative to the same time period in 1981. In the areas where energy development has spurred the economy, sales were reported as 10-20 percent higher than last year. Throughout the District, sales slowed in March and April. Weakness was apparent in appliance, lawn and garden, and home improvement merchandise. Due to recent slack sales, most retailers have excess inventory which has put some downward pressure on profit margins. Retailers, however, report merchandise, utility, and labor costs have stabilized so profits may be down less than might have been expected. Most retailers indicate that they expect the weakness in sales to continue through the first two months of the fourth quarter. In those areas where energy production is important, however, retailers expect sales to continue to be well over 1981 levels. Automobile Dealers Associations Automobile dealers in the Tenth District are more optimistic than they were six weeks ago, in spite of continued slow sales and high interest rates. With the exception of Oklahoma's 9 percent increase, Tenth District automobile sales remain depressed, in some areas down 5 to 10 percent from a year ago. Inventories have now stabilized at low levels. Dealers intimate a sense of guarded optimism, convinced of the existence of pent-up demand. Purchasing Agents Almost all purchasing agents report prices for major new materials ranging from 5 percent to 18 percent lower than a year ago. Stable or slightly increasing prices are expected for the remainder of the year. Input availability is not a problem within the Tenth District, with the exception of the heavy metal industries where 2-3 weeks lead times are being experienced. Most of the companies contacted are continuing to trim inventories. Agriculture Many Tenth District bankers are currently increasing their loan loss provisions. It is estimated that an average of 30 percent of agricultural loans and 20 percent of nonagricultural loans are receiving careful scrutiny on a monthly basis by commercial bankers within the District. Some of the more careful monitoring by bankers is due to increased numbers of customers with adequate cash flow but insufficient collateral. Banks and Production Credit Associations report a slight increase in voluntary business liquidations as a last resort method of preserving remaining assets prior to forced bankruptcy. District bankers report some damage to the winter wheat crop as a result of the recent freeze, but not nearly as severe as last year's frost damage. Recent improvement in cattle prices has had a significant impact on the profitability of cattle producers in the first quarter of 1982. Hog production likewise is showing signs of improved profitability. Banking Developments Reported loan demand is generally characterized as flat throughout the Tenth District. The energy sector, previously a source of strength, continues to weaken resulting in slower demand for commercial and industrial loans and commercial construction financing. The recently announced shutdown of the Exxon shale oil project is seen as having an adverse effect on the economy and financial institutions in western Colorado. More generally, several bankers express concern over the profitability of energy loans in light of the decline in world oil prices. Consumer, residential construction, and agricultural lending activity continue to be depressed. Much of the deposit activity in recent weeks is seen as tax-related or seasonal in nature. However, some banks report an increase in receivables and inventory financing. In addition, several banks indicate that customers are continuing to transfer funds out of thrift institutions into small time and savings deposits at banks.