The Twelfth District economic recession does not appear to have ended. The general pattern of economic activity since the last report has continued to be downward. Consumer spending during the Easter season was disappointing, with sales in April just about matching the year-ago pace, representing a decline in real terms. In the manufacturing and mining sectors, a number of industries are undergoing a new wave of production cutbacks. The only notable improvement in sales has occurred in electronic equipment. Homebuilding has picked up recently, but the continued decline in home sales suggests the recovery may not be sustained. Storms have inflicted serious damage on the California agriculture industry, and crop prices generally remain below the level of a year ago. Bank credit growth at Twelfth District banks has slowed considerably since February, as the weakness in the regional economy and the heavy debt burden of borrowers has stifled business loan demand. Consumer Spending Respondents report that retail sales throughout the Twelfth District continue to be slow. Department store sales in April apparently just about matched the dollar volume of a year-ago, representing a decline in real terms. Easter business picked up seasonally but was disappointing relative to the level of a year-earlier. Not even price discounts and heavy advertising campaigns were effective in significantly spurring sales. Sales of durable goods, such as furniture and appliances, continue to be particularly weak, due both to the housing slump and the reluctance of consumers to incur new debt. Sales of nondurable goods have been holding up better, but even grocery stores have been feeling the effects of recession. An increasing number of small retail outlets are going out of business. Sales of new automobiles declined in April, despite offers of below- market financing and free warranty programs. Manufacturing and Mining Twelfth District manufacturing and mining industries have been undergoing a new wave of layoffs and production cutbacks in recent weeks. While employment in the lumber segment of the forest products industry has stabilized, the paper industry continues to cut back production. Layoffs also continue in the construction, commercial aircraft, and metals industries. Due to numerous commercial aircraft order cancellations, the Boeing Company in Seattle now plans to layoff at least 8,000 workers by year-end, instead of the 5,000 announced earlier. Partly as a result of these cutbacks, Pacific Northwest aluminum producers also are cutting production further. Other regional metals industries are sinking deeper into recession as a result of depressed demand from the national automobile, appliance and construction industries. In mid-April, Phelps Dodge Corporation closed nearly all of its copper mines and smelters in Arizona and New Mexico for an extended period, laying off 3,800 workers. Declining world oil prices also are forcing cutbacks in such energy programs as oil drilling, oil shale development and coal production. The only significant improvement in sales is occurring in the electronic equipment manufacturing industry, both as a result of a pickup in commercial orders and continued strength in defense business. Construction and Real Estate The Twelfth District is finally experiencing a pickup in homebuilding. But regional housing starts had dropped to a post- World War II low in February, so residential construction remains extremely depressed. Moreover, sales of new homes have continued to drop, and since inventories of unsold homes are still high, it is doubtful the recovery can be sustained until those inventories are worked off. California realtors are concerned that the Supreme Court may rule that home buyers in the state may no longer assume existing low-interest loans. Such a ruling would further reduce sales of older homes. Meanwhile, the slump in sales is further eroding selling prices for both new and older single-family homes and condominiums. Nonresidential construction activity also is slowing substantially. Developers are canceling some planned commercial projects, such as shopping centers and office buildings. Due to soaring costs, utilities in Washington have been forced to terminate construction of three nuclear plants. Agriculture Recent storms in California have inflicted serious damage on the agriculture industry. Heavy rains and flooding prevented planting of an entire strawberry crop, delayed planting of such important crops as cotton, rice and tomatoes, and drowned much of the State's asparagus crop. Experts fear that the roots of a wide variety of fruit and nut trees may rot due to flooding. Thus, even if crop prices rise this year, California farmers could experience a decline in receipts. In other Twelfth District agricultural areas, crop prospects are favorable. The increase in livestock prices in recent months also is a welcome improvement. Nevertheless, district bankers express growing concern over the heavy debt position of the agricultural sector generally. Financial Institutions Bank credit growth in the Twelfth District has slowed considerably since February. In particular, the pace of business lending has leveled off, as the weakness in the region's economy and the heavy debt position of borrowers has stifled loan demand across nearly all industries. Twelfth District banks report a sharp increase in business loan delinquencies over the past few months and expect loan losses to be double those reported in the last normal year of 1980. Bankruptcies are up in the forest products and construction industries, as well as for small firms generally. Furthermore, cash-flow problems that are generated by firms' inability to collect receivables on time are becoming much more widespread throughout the business community. Because of this increase in delinquencies and problem loans, as well as continued pressure on net interest margins, many banks in this region are undertaking programs to bolster earnings by cutting noninterest costs.