Overview Economic activity in most sectors slackened further in April and early May, according to District reports. Consumer spending was generally lackluster although automobile sales picked up in a few Districts. The weakness in manufacturing became more pervasive, spreading to energy-related and high technology fields. Layoffs did not appear to slow, and capital spending continued to decline. New residential construction remained depressed, but some very modest improvements were noted in a few local housing markets. In the agricultural sector, liquidations and bankruptcies rose as farm incomes and land values continued to fall. Consumer borrowing was sluggish although commercial lending varied somewhat among Districts. In contrast to last month, none of the District reports expressed any optimism that a turnaround was at hand. Consumer Spending Retail sales were lackluster in most areas of the country although automobile sales picked up in a few Districts. Despite the general weakness among department stores, merchants in Boston, Philadelphia and Dallas experienced moderate gains in their overall sales. In many Districts, increased reliance on markdowns and promotional activity spurred lagging sales but put considerable pressure on profit margins. Only retailers in Cleveland, St. Louis and Kansas City reported excessive inventories. As for automobile sales, strong response to rebates and special financing plans was noted in St. Louis and Minneapolis but such measures did little to stimulate sales in San Francisco. Manufacturing Activity Throughout most of the country, conditions worsened in the manufacturing sector, with weakness spreading even to industries which had been weathering the recession well. In many Districts, already distressed industries deteriorated further, including steel, machine tools, building materials, and textiles. The weakness spread to other, previously strong industries which had bolstered the economies of several Districts. Conditions softened in such high technology industries as computers and telecommunications equipment, according to the Boston, Atlanta, and Minneapolis reports. Orders for oil production equipment dropped sharply in Dallas, Atlanta, and Chicago. Cutbacks in state and local government dampened purchases by the public sector. Layoffs and reduced hours were widespread, and many Districts reported several plant shutdowns, both temporary and permanent. Capital spending was being postponed or canceled. Inventories were generally lean, although manufacturers in Richmond still viewed stocks as excessive. Construction New residential construction was uniformly described as depressed, although modest improvements were noted in a few local housing markets. Demand for luxury cooperative apartments remained high in Manhattan and housing sales showed some strength in other parts of New York City. In Dallas, housing sales and new starts regained year-ago levels, but the slight upturn in new housing starts in San Francisco, February had marked a post-World War II low, was offset by further declines in the sales of new homes. Creative financing was cited as providing some support to sales in a number of Districts. In the nonresidential sector, construction activity remained strong in a few urban centers, but San Francisco reported the cancellations of several commercial projects. Some softening was evident in New York's previously buoyant office rental market. Agriculture Conditions in the agricultural sector remain generally grim, especially in the Midwest and California. In California, heavy rains impeded the Spring plantings, according to the San Francisco report. With crop prices having fallen to low levels, crop farmers throughout the country are caught in a squeeze of high interest charges and low income. As a result, land prices have fallen sharply, and farmers have had difficulty in paying their bills. Farm foreclosures and bankruptcies have increased sharply. Livestock producers, however, have benefited from the recent rise in livestock prices which, in combination with the low crop prices, have widened their profit margins. Nevertheless, the generally bleak conditions in agriculture have strained the solvency of such related businesses as farm machinery, seed and fertilizer sales, and elevator operations according to reports from Cleveland and Minneapolis. Finance Consumer borrowing was generally weak, while commercial lending varied somewhat among Districts. In Philadelphia, business borrowing was slightly ahead of last year, but bankers expected loan demand to soften. Slackening in the energy sector had divergent effects on loan demand, increasing lending activity in Dallas and decreasing it in Kansas City. Flat loan demand was reported in Cleveland, St. Louis, and Minneapolis. San Francisco banks experienced a sharp rise in problem and delinquent loans as bankruptcies increased among forest products; and construction industries and small firms in general. Outlook In contrast to last month none of the District reports expressed any optimism that a turnaround was at hand. Instead, conditions appear to have worsened and forecasts of a recovery have been postponed until later in the year. Economists in Boston felt an upturn, albeit an "anemic" or "modest" one, would begin in the second half of the year despite deteriorating conditions in April and early May. Among manufacturers, some were looking for a pickup in business activity within the next six months, while others were less sanguine. Retailers, too, were divided with some expecting an upturn to follow the July tax cut while others, such as those in Richmond and in Kansas City, did not see any imminent upturn in sales. As for the price outlook, there was little feel for whether the recent slowdown was cyclical or permanent. In Chicago, price discounting is more common than at any time since the l930s and is especially prevalent in steel, nonferrous metals, building materials, paper, and transportation, though a large surge in these prices is anticipated with recovery. Similarly, in Kansas City, prices for new materials were down between 5 and 18 percent from last year but are expected to be stable or rise slightly for the rest of the year. Wage settlements not far below those of a year ago were reported by several Districts. For example some Chicago firms in depressed industries recently negotiated contracts calling for 8 to 10 percent first year wage increases.