Summary Retail sales have flattened but retailers are reluctant to indicate the timing of recovery. Demand for capital goods continues to decline. Demand for steel may have bottomed at a very low level. Manufacturers expect inventories to decline again in May. Retail inventories have become more burdensome. Unemployment is rising as plant closings continue. Ohio farmers are in great financial difficulty. Business loans and NOW accounts were flat in early May. Consumer Spending Retailers generally believe that declines in sales have flattened but are reluctant to indicate the timing of recovery. Several retailers report deferring or canceling plans to build and open new outlets over the next few years because of high interest rates and uncertain profit margins. One major retailer places the trough in consumer spending in April. He points out that declines in spending in March and April offset nearly one-half of the increase in spending that occurred between last October and February. Auto producers are not optimistic that sales will improve much until well after the scheduled tax decreases in July. Capital Goods Capital goods producers continue to face declining demand for their products. A manufacturer of machine tools, continuing to experience lower orders and falling backlogs, is "gearing operations down to the lower level of business anticipated in 1983." Another machine tool manufacturer recently laid off another 250 employees because of weak orders and declining backlogs. A bearing manufacturer expects second quarter orders to be 8 percent below first quarter, and backlogs to fall further. He anticipates some upturn in demand from auto and farm machinery producers in the second half but no recovery before yearend in demand from railroad car and machine tool manufacturers. A major supplier of heavy-duty truck equipment reports that sales continued to decline in April and expects no recovery in heavy-duty trucks before yearend. Steel There are some indications that demand for steel may have stopped declining. One major producer says orders have stabilized at a very low level but expects industry shipments for the year may be as low as 70 to 75 million tons. That firms notes that "low volume and very weak prices are putting the steel industry under great financial pressure. Marginal producers probably will not survive." Another major producer, operating at 48 percent of capacity, says "the order book is flat." The firm expects second quarter shipments to be no better than in the first quarter, which had the lowest non-strike level of shipments in 40 years. Inventories A sample of manufacturers report that their inventories fell in April and will fall again in May. Most producers of primary metals and industrial machinery expect to continue to cut inventories. A producer of paint and a paper manufacturer expect to add to inventories. A petroleum company expects crude oil inventories to continue the decline that began in mid-February. Petroleum product inventories dropped sharply in the first quarter and should, on balance, decline slightly in second quarter. Bearing inventories held by producers and customers fell in first quarter, but little change is expected in the second quarter. Inventories of heavy-duty trucks were reduced substantially in March but the further decline in sales in April has deferred the completion of the inventory liquidation. Automobile producers are no longer concerned about new car inventories, except on a spot basis. Retail inventories of department-store-type goods have become more burdensome because of declines in sales in March and April. Unemployment and Plant Closings The effects of recession continue to spread and deepen throughout the Fourth District. The April SA unemployment rate was 12.4 percent in Ohio and 10.7 percent in Pennsylvania, well above the nation's 9.4 percent. Plant closings continue in the District although some have been avoided or rescinded because of worker concessions. National Steel wants to sell or close its 11,500 employee steel plant In Weirton, West Virginia and Colt Industries wants to sell or close its 4,300 employee Crucible Steel Division plant in Midland, Pennsylvania. AM International wants to close or sell its 500 employee duplicating machine parts plant in Cleveland. B.F. Goodrich recently agreed to continue operating its 2,000 employee Akron industrial products plant for 3 years in exchange for union contract concessions. GMC is closing a 1,200 employee stamping plant in Cleveland but has rescinded the planned closing of a 1,400 employee trim plant in Cleveland in exchange for union concessions. Agriculture The widespread nature of the recession is illustrated by the increasing plight of farmers, especially those in southwest Ohio. Many are finding it hard to obtain credit. The Ohio Department of Agriculture expects four times the usual number of Ohio farmer bankruptcies this year and expects nearly one-fourth of the state's farm machinery dealers to close or be sold. The Department also notes that a number of grain elevator operations are in financial difficulty. Financial Institutions Business loans and NOW accounts were flat in early May, and one banker reported more switching of deposits out of S&L's. Two major banks report C and I loans declined during the last two weeks of April, were flat in the first few days of May, and are expected to be flat for the month. Another large bank reports that C and I loans have remained strong in recent weeks but a definite slowing in commitments will show up in reduced loans in the months ahead. Some bankers characterize much C and I activity as "distress borrowing" and "not for expansion but just to pay bills". NOW accounts at two large commercial banks declined in the last two weeks of April and were flat or down a bit in the first week of May. One banker reports that the silent run on S&L's has been augmented in the last month by frequent instances of early withdrawal of small CD's by depositors who accept the penalty and shift funds to sometimes lower yielding certificates in commercial banks.