Summary Seventh District economic activity remains very weak. The expected, or hoped for, spring upturn has not developed. At best the decline is leveling off, but further softening is evident in producer goods. There is no evidence that a significant pickup will occur soon. Consumers are very cautious. Deepening financial problems are causing corporate executives to push austerity programs. Purchasing managers reported continuing declines in output, employment, inventories, and orders in April, but the rate of decline apparently moderated. Inventories are said to be low, but are being reduced further. Price cutting is widespread. The high value of the dollar is aiding foreign competitors. Construction activity probably will set a postwar low this year. Farmers are encouraged by the rise in livestock prices, but income prospects, overall, remain poor and farmland values have been declining since last fall. A Dismal Profile The region of the Seventh District has been in a depressed state for three years. In March, total payroll employment in the five-state area was 7 percent below March 1979. Nationally, despite the recent decline, it was still up 2 percent. Manufacturing employment was down 19 percent in the district, compared to a decline of 8 percent for the nation. The situation appears to have worsened somewhat since March, with further layoffs in a wide variety of activities. Weakness is pervasive, not only in manufacturing, but in construction, transportation, trade, agriculture, and state and local government. Michigan has the most serious employment problem, but all district states compare unfavorably with the nation. Austerity Programs With hopes fading for an early recovery, many individuals, businesses, farmers, and state and local governments are retrenching on new outlays and commitments. Businesses are cutting staff, reducing compensation (when possible), paring inventories, and postponing or canceling capital expenditure projects. Less essential outlays on travel, public relations, market research, advertising and sales promotion are under very close scrutiny. Under the circumstances, the danger of a cumulative downturn is greater than at any time since World War II. Bankruptcies and Closings Financial stress is reflected in a wave of bankruptcies and closings of factories and retail establishments. Chapter 11 filings have shot up. In one jurisdiction there were more Chapter 11 cases in March than in all of 1981. Bankruptcies of smaller manufacturers, retailers, truckers, real estate companies, and farm-related enterprises are most frequent. Some larger firms, technically insolvent, are operating under special arrangements with creditors or are being kept afloat by parent companies. Many stores have been closed either because of bankruptcy or unprofitable results. Permanent plant closings are also frequent, especially manufacturers who have lost supplier contracts with OEM's. One result of shutdowns is the large volume of forced sales of relatively new vehicles and other equipment. Inflation A dramatic shift in the inflation picture has occurred since the start of the year. Price discounting is more common that at any time since the 1930's, and is especially prevalent in steel, nonferrous metals, building materials, paper, and transportation, rail, truck, and air. Many observers believe that discounted prices will surge once sales improve. The drop in petroleum prices is believed to have ended. Prices of medical and utility services, and many manufactured goods, continue to rise at a rapid pace. Nevertheless, assumptions on the long-term inflation rate have been scaled back from 10 percent to 8 percent or less. Employment Layoffs, either temporary, indefinite, or permanent continue not only in manufacturing but also in trade, transportation, real estate, and finance, particularly S&L's. Facilities of state employment offices are hard pressed. Many workers are exhausting unemployment benefits. Labor Concessions Negotiations for concessions on labor contracts continue. In the main, these agreements have merely slowed increases in total compensation. Some new labor agreements call for first-year wage boosts in the 8-10 percent range, even in depressed industries. The auto industry seems to have reconciled itself to high domestic labor costs, now $21 per hour, with a view to substantially increasing foreign sourcing of major components, including engines. Motor Vehicles Small truck sales rose sharply in the first quarter, partly reflecting a favorable reception for new domestic compact trucks. Demand for heavy trucks remains very weak. Total car sales slipped back in April after major rebate programs expired. Nevertheless, output of cars will rise substantially in the second quarter because inventories were reduced in the first quarter. Truck output is above last year. Capital Expenditures The outlook for producer durables continues to deteriorate. Various manufacturers report orders off 30 to 60 percent from last year's mediocre levels, with backlogs "evaporating". Support for "safe harbor" leasing is very strong. Among the weakest lines are equipment for railroads, trucklines, construction, and agriculture. Machine tools and oil and gas field items are declining rapidly. The largest locomotive plant, scheduled to close, will remain open due to orders booked recently. Steel Demand for steel has been much weaker than expected, especially for heavy products. Estimates for 1982 shipments have been reduced further. Some facilities are being closed. State and Local Governments Virtually all state and local governments are seeking to prevent or reduce large prospective budget deficits. Efforts to reduce employee compensation, or moderate increases, are meeting strong union opposition. Various programs are being scaled down and facilities are being closed. Construction Home sales and residential construction remain at a very low ebb. Housing permits in the Chicago area were under 800 in the first quarter, compared to 2,300 a year ago, and over 7,000 in the first quarter of 1978. Creative financing is helping to move some existing properties but is not boosting new construction. Agriculture Although the district agricultural picture remains bleak, livestock producers are enjoying modest profits due to higher prices and low feed costs. Capital expenditures by farmers remain weak overall, especially for machinery, but orders for grain storage facilities have improved recently. Our latest quarterly survey of agricultural banks shows district land values down 4.5 percent since the beginning of the year, and down 7.5 percent since last September. The number of real estate transactions is down and foreclosures and forced sales account for a small, but much higher-than-normal, share of the total. Field work, after a somewhat late start, has progressed rapidly.