Overview Fifth District economic and business activity continues almost uniformly weak. There is virtually no evidence that conditions have begun to improve. District manufacturers report further declines in shipments and new orders over the past month. In addition, order backlogs, inventories, and employment are said to have fallen broadly. Retail sales activity has been essentially flat in recent weeks and remains moderately weak. Housing activity is pervasively weak. Business lending, as well as mortgage activity, is said to be generally soft, nil in some areas. Consumer lending is somewhat stronger. Most of the manufacturers surveyed expect business conditions to improve over the next two quarters. Few Richmond directors, however, expect the recession to end before fall. The Manufacturing Sector District manufacturers report further declines in shipments, new orders, and order backlogs since the last survey period. Materials inventories also fell while stocks of finished goods were stable. Employment and the length of the average workweek were also said to be down sharply. Reductions in manufacturing employment have spread across the District and along with the construction sector have resulted in unemployment rates above the national in some Fifth District states. In some cases current rates were topped only in 1975. Construction and automobile related industries are among the most severely affected. Layoffs and plant closings in such industries as textiles, tires, furniture, glass, building materials, and others have contributed significantly. Despite the decline in inventories, manufacturers still view stocks as excessive and nearly half our respondents find current plant and equipment exceeding present needs. The survey further suggests that prices, including wages, have fallen, on balance, in recent weeks. Furthermore, respondents are considerably more optimistic than in recent months. Over half the manufacturers expect the level of business activity nationally, as well as in their respective markets and firms, to improve over the next six months. Consumer Spending Retail sales also remain generally soft. There are few signs of any pickup in activity and little expectation that any will develop over the next few months. Responses from our directors and our survey of retailers suggest that some recovery in housing is essential to a general recovery in the consumption sector. Our contacts in the financial sector indicate that although installment lending has shown some signs of life, consumers generally are paying down debt and increasing savings. Housing and Construction Housing remains uniformly weak and other construction sectors seem to have lost some of the buoyancy of recent months. There remains little optimism concerning the short term prospects in this sector. Richmond directors, for instance, do not now expect stronger new housing activity any time this year. Agriculture Farm credit conditions in the District generally remain depressed. Foreclosures on farm borrowers at the end of 1981 were reported by more than one-fifth of our banker respondents. The number of foreclosures represented a relatively small share of all farm borrowers at the respective banks, however. In general, requests for refinancing farm loans to avoid default were greater than usual. Credit conditions during the quarter ending March 31, 1982 were characterized by soft farm loan demand, further deterioration in the quality of farm loans, and a modest rise in interest rates. Bank funds available for lending to farmers remained at a high level, up from both the previous quarter and a year ago, but collateral requirements jumped sharply. Loan-to-deposit ratios of banks reporting averaged slightly higher than in the previous quarter but were still fractionally below a year ago. The Outlook The outlook can only be described as mixed. Manufacturers have become more and more optimistic in recent months. As noted, most expect conditions to have improved by late fall. Retailers on the other hand, do not seem to feel that any recovery is imminent. Richmond directors clearly believe that any recovery is still several months away, probably not before fall.