Overview Contacts throughout the Southeast report that business activity in general is no longer weakening and their expectations for the remainder of the year are somewhat brighter than before. Several contacts in manufacturing have recently revised upward their expectations of business activity for the near term and report their capital spending plans will remain unchanged or increased as a result. These manufacturers are primarily in chemicals, textiles, and primary metals industries. The few manufacturers reporting a downward revision in their expectations tended to be associated with residential and office construction. The railway and trucking industries continue to report a decreasing volume of shipments. Contacts indicate that consumer spending is stronger than they expected last month. Oil and gas exploration is still showing some renewed strength, although expectations are for only a slow improvement in activity. Manufacturing Most manufacturers report generally good business activity and their expectations for the next few months remain unchanged or have been revised upward in August. A producer of plastic containers noted that to begin a new product line, capital spending plans had been recently increased. He added that most of the additional investment would be in their southeastern plants, where wage pressure and labor shortages were lower than in the rest of the nation. He also reported that the price of plastic resins has been falling, which he thought would eventually lead to a decline in the prices of their final products. Another producer of thermoplastics reported that prices of raw materials like ethylene have been coming down all year, and he expects them to fall further by year's end. He anticipates business will remain good for the remainder of the year with the only weakness occurring in construction related plastic goods such as plastic pipe. Producers of aluminum expect continuing good business after record business last year. The sources of strength are large orders from aircraft producers and strong export demand. From a year ago, exports of aluminum have been up by 50 percent. Weaker auto and appliance sales have not affected aluminum production so far, but producers expect some inventory buildup by the end of the year. A manufacturer of kitchen appliances reports that although 1989 started out strong, production over the past few months has been below last year's level by about 15 percent; he expects production to remain weak for the rest of the year. Contacts in the textile and apparel industry have reported concern about competition from imports, although strong domestic demand has been able to absorb both imported goods and domestic production. One producer notes that there has been a slight easing in the costs of raw materials like cotton and chemicals recently. Another, describing his outlook as "guardedly optimistic," reports that capital spending will continue at the same level for the next three years, a level he considers substantial. Construction Reports on residential construction vary considerably. Reporters indicate that building permits in Orlando are up over 50 percent compared to year-ago levels, while contacts in Miami describe their market as depressed. Some Miami lenders note that they do not expect to encourage new borrowing until the real estate picture clears up. Uncertainty related to the potential impact of the new S&L legislation on the real estate market was mentioned a number of times. A major supplier of building materials in Florida says that business is down substantially because of declining residential construction, and while he sees signs or activity leveling off, he does not expect any recovery this year. On the other hand, a spokesman from the lumber and wood industry reports that home remodeling has been steadily increasing in importance and has taken up the slack from weak residential construction demand. His expectations of future business activity have not changed recently. Nonresidential construction is reported to be holding up well in most areas of the Districts. Consumer Spending Contacts continue to indicate that spending for home appliances and furniture is soft. A furniture retailer pointed out that sales so far in September have been about the same as last year and that they are expecting only slow growth for the rest of the year. They have begun postponing capital expenditures in case business weakens further. Purchases of nondurables like apparel and textiles are generally described as strong. Auto sales in August are reported to be up substantially over previous months as a result of manufacturer rebates, although sales in the Sixth District were somewhat weaker than the rest of the nation. It is feared, however, that the recent gains may be at the expense of reduced sales in 1990. Natural Resources and Energy Reporters indicate that interest in drilling for oil and natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico has picked up recently. Contacts thought that increased interest in exploration to replenish domestic reserves combined with some consolidation in the industry might result in improved drilling activity later this year. A couple of our contacts indicated that the increased interest in oil and gas exploration in the Gulf is a consequence of the Alaskan oil spill and uncertainties concerning future regulation of production. Services The trucking industry has been reporting declining volume of shipments for the past several months. Reduced shipments of building materials and lumber products have been sources of weakness. Representatives of several trucking firms said that they have recently decided not to increase capacity, any capital spending would be to maintain existing equipment. Railway representatives report that carloadings have been down for all products, including autos and other manufactured goods. One contact noted that the Southeast is faring about the same as the rest of the nation. Most have attributed the reduced volume to overall economic conditions rather than seasonal factors. The health care industry has reported that the shortage of nurses has eased recently. Efforts to increase enrollments in nursing programs seem to be paying off.