Summary District economic growth remains sluggish with most contacts anticipating no major changes for the remainder of 1989. Several sectors, however, report worsening shortages of skilled workers. Consumer spending increased in August and early September following generally sluggish summer activity. Real residential construction activity remains below year-ago levels. Bank profits were reduced by rising loan losses. Many bankers anticipate additional commercial real estate loan problems. Consumer Spending District retail sales of general merchandise picked up slightly in August and early September after being flat for most of the summer. Sales of women's apparel were strong throughout the region while back-to-school sales were moderate. Spending on durables, including building materials and furniture, were lower than a year earlier. Most contacts report inventories at satisfactory levels. Car sales are either flat or lower than a year earlier in most areas, though contacts in Arkansas and Louisville report increases in August and early September spurred by dealer incentives. Auto inventories remain above desired levels. The outlook for the remainder of the year for both general merchandise and autos is for flat or slightly higher real sales compared with last year. Labor Markets District employment has leveled off since the first quarter, with no major sector showing significant growth. Construction employment has rebounded in some parts of the region in recent months but remains below the levels of a year ago. Regional manufacturing employment declined slightly in recent months, except in Arkansas, where it has expanded moderately over the last year because of growth in nondurables production. Producers of poultry products, apparel, paper and boxes have either expanded or announced major expansions. The St. Louis unemployment rate declined 0.1 percentage points to 5.2 percent in July despite temporary layoffs of 4,000 auto workers. One labor analyst expects the jobless rate to drop even lower in August, then remain near 5 percent for the rest of the year. Although District job growth has generally been sluggish, labor shortages have become more severe over the last year. Little change in the availability of unskilled workers was reported, but finding qualified skilled workers is increasingly difficult for manufacturing, wholesale/retail trades, finance and services firms. For the rest of 1989, businesses surveyed in the District expect little change in overall economic conditions and most plan no substantial changes in the size of their workforce or inventories in the next few months. Among the District's major metropolitan areas, employment opportunities were expected to be most limited in Louisville, where construction job reductions are expected. Construction and Real Estate The value of contracts for nonresidential building increased moderately in recent months in Arkansas, Kentucky and Missouri and is slightly above the level of a year earlier. Following several years of strong construction growth, the recent completion of a one million square-foot office building precipitated a rise in St. Louis downtown vacancy rates to 24 percent, the highest rate of the decade. No new office construction of any magnitude is expected in the downtown area for several years. Although slight gains were reported this summer, District residential construction growth remains sluggish. The value of District residential contracts issued in the first seven months of 1989 is virtually identical to that of a year earlier, with building of multi-family dwellings particularly weak. Agriculture Most District crops are in fair-to-good condition. Drier conditions in southern states have helped improve cotton and soybean crops that were damaged by excess rain earlier in the season. Continued rains in northern Missouri have helped drought-stressed late soybeans and pastures, but arrived too late to help the corn and sorghum crops. Agricultural banks servicing weather-stressed areas are not anticipating a substantial change in the quality of their agricultural loan portfolios this year. Banking District bank earnings declined 4.6 percent in the second quarter. Loan losses in the commercial area and additions to loan loss reserves hampered earnings. Asset quality declined during the second quarter, particularly at the largest banks where nonperforming loans represent 2.16 percent of total loans. Problems with real estate loans are of particular note. District commercial banks continued to improve their capital adequacy position with only four banks failing to meet the minimum regulatory primary capital guideline.