Overview The Tenth District economy is still growing moderately. Retail sales are up over last year and over the last three months. Automobile sales are down from last year, but up slightly from last month. Manufacturers report moderate price increases for both inputs and products. Inventories at retailers are low and expected to stay low. Manufacturers, however, are trimming inventories from relatively high levels. Drilling activity has increased slightly in recent months. Housing activity remains weak. Loan demand at commercial banks remains flat, while deposits have increased. Recent rains have alleviated the drought situation, and agricultural credit conditions continue to improve. Retail Sales District retailers report sales increases over last year and over the last three months, with additional improvement expected as the holiday season approaches. Most respondents plan to keep inventory levels low in the upcoming months. Recent higher costs have led some retailers to increase prices slightly, but most expect stable prices in the future. Automobile dealers report slightly higher sales over the last month, but sales this year to date remain down from a year ago. Most dealers continue to trim inventory levels and expect sales to continue at about their current pace. Manufacturing Most respondents report moderate input price increases from a year earlier. Prices have increased in the past three months but are expected to stabilize soon. Firms report no problems in acquiring materials, although lead times have lengthened. Most respondents continue trimming inventories from relatively high levels. Many plants are operating at full capacity, with some extending work days or shifts. Labor supply is not a problem, although one aircraft manufacturer reported a shortage of experienced labor. Energy Although district drilling activity remains below year-ago levels, more stable oil prices and increased exploration for natural gas have brought some recent improvement to the district's energy industry. After increasing sharply in July to 249, the average number of active drilling rigs in the district increased again to 259 in August. Exploration and development activity nonetheless stands about 5 percent below the level of one year ago. Housing Activity and Finance Most district homebuilders report housing starts down from a year ago. Compared with a month ago, housing starts vary across the district. Most respondents report that construction materials are available and that prices are generally stable. New home sales are slow, and most respondents expect only slight improvement for the rest of the year. Deposit flows at district savings and loan institutions have mostly held steady over the past month, although a few respondents have noticed a slight outflow of funds. Respondents expect steady deposit flows in coming months, with slightly increased inflows expected only after press coverage of the new savings and loan legislation dies down. Mortgage demand has been down modestly over the summer months, and respondents expect a further seasonal decline during the winter. Respondents report stable mortgage rates and believe rates will remain steady or drop slightly in the coming months. Banking District bankers report that total loan demand was stable during the last month, with both consumer loans and commercial and industrial loans reported as unchanged. Home mortgages and home equity loans increased, however, offsetting a decline in commercial real estate lending. Increased deposits brought declines in loan to deposit ratios. Demand deposits declined during this period, but NOW accounts, MMDAs, and small time and savings deposits were all steady to slightly higher. IRA accounts and large certificates of deposit were largely unchanged. About half of the respondents report a reduction in prime rate during the last month, with the other half reporting no change. Most respondents expect no further change in bank lending rates in the near future. Agriculture Plentiful late summer rain is alleviating the severe drought that affected much of the district during the past year. In Nebraska and northern Missouri, where the corn and soybean harvest will begin soon, the recent rains will boost crop yields. Still, yields may be a fourth to a third below average. In Kansas, the rainfall did not arrive in time to improve drought-diminished milo yields, and the wet weather may delay the milo harvest. Cool, wet weather in southwest Oklahoma has delayed the development of the cotton crop and left the crop vulnerable to an early frost. Although recent rainfall has temporarily halted winter wheat planting in Oklahoma and could delay planting in Kansas, greater soil moisture will benefit the early development of the new crop. The rains have improved range and pasture conditions across most of the district. Adequate forage and strong cattle prices are encouraging district cattle ranchers to expand herds. The limited supply of young cattle available is likely to maintain high feeder cattle prices that, in turn, will limit profits for district cattle feeders. In the parts of the district where the drought was most severe, bankers expect a slight decline in farm loan repayment rates. Well-targeted federal drought relief, however, will be of greatest benefit to those farmers suffering the greatest losses. On balance, agricultural credit conditions in the district continue to improve.