Summary The economy in the West is expanding at a healthy pace. Twelfth District business leaders' expectations of further growth have improved during the past month. Annual increases in wages and in the prices of most products are running at or below 5 percent. Consumer spending growth continues healthy. Apparel sales continue strong and a pickup in car sales during August buoyed the generally lackluster sales of durable goods. Manufacturing industries report generally satisfactory conditions, with little change in exports in recent months. Crop yields are good in most parts of the District, and exports of many products continue strong. Lumber mills in the Pacific Northwest still face limited log supplies. Construction and real estate activity are strong in most of the West, although Arizona remains weak. Western bankers report increases in loan volume and earnings, and stiff competition for deposits. Business Sentiment The most recent information on the economic mood of Twelfth District business leaders indicates improvement in all categories. Although almost three-quarters of respondents still expect weak growth in GNP during the next four quarters, expectations for housing starts, consumer spending, and the trade balance improved markedly during the past month. Wages and Prices Annual price increases at or below the 5 percent range are reported for automobiles (both foreign and domestic), building materials, and natural gas. Respondents note larger price increases for processed vegetables (up 20 percent), raw stumpage (up 64 percent), and Idaho potatoes (up 30 percent). Grape and silver prices have fallen in recent months, and easing capacity constraints for paper manufacturers are putting downward pressure on paper prices. Recently negotiated union settlements generally call for annual wage increases of 4 percent or less. Exceptions to this trend are nurses and teachers in several western cities who recently negotiated annual salary increases in the ten percent range. Businesses report difficulty hiring sufficient qualified labor in many parts of the District, including Oregon, southern Idaho, and agricultural regions of California. Trade and Services Retail sales continue to exhibit healthy growth, with particular strength in apparel sales. One retailer notes that the primary constraint to expanding his operations is the difficulty of finding adequate labor in many locations. Sales of durable goods have been less robust, although a car dealer notes that 1989 models moved well in August as buyers tried to beat the price increases scheduled for 1990 models. Summer tourist activity is reported to have increased over last year's level in Idaho, Utah, and southern California. Manufacturing Conditions in manufacturing industries generally are satisfactory, with significant variations by product line and company. One electronic component manufacturer reports that the order rate is flat, while other high tech firms report strong growth and still others announce cutbacks and layoffs. A heavy equipment dealer reports that construction machinery sales throughout the West continue to do "very well." Defense contracting activity continues to slide. A cable television company faces delays in receiving wiring and materials from manufacturers because strong demand is creating bottlenecks in existing facilities. Most Twelfth District manufacturers report little change in exports following the recent appreciation of the dollar. For example, international demand for aircraft is so strong that fluctuations in the exchange value of the dollar have little effect on aircraft exports. One banker notes that current exports were contracted in early August when foreign prices of U.S. products were more favorable. Nevertheless, an electronic component manufacturer reports that the dollar value of his export sales has fallen. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Crop yields and product quality are reported to be good in most parts of the District, although weather conditions have hurt crops in eastern Oregon, Utah, and pockets of southeastern Idaho. Exports, buoyed by strong demand from Pacific Rim countries, are reported to be strong for a wide range of agricultural products, including almonds and corn. However, grain exporters report slow sales following the recent dollar appreciation. Exports of beef continue to increase, with one Asian country currently negotiating a large order. The environmental controversy regarding logging of old-growth forests, combined with continued strong demand for exported logs, has reduced log supplies available to mill owners. One large mill reports having a 10-month supply in the pipeline, compared with a 24-month supply a year ago. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate activity are reported to be strong in most parts of the West. The pace of activity in Utah, where activity had been weak for several years, appears to be picking up. Sales and construction activity continue strong in California, Nevada, Washington, Oregon, Hawaii, and in much of Idaho. Finding trained construction workers is reported to be troublesome in most of the region. Bidding wars to purchase single-family homes seen in California a few months ago seem to have moved north to the Puget Sound area in Washington. However, a southern California developer notes that leasing activity is not keeping up with the pace of new office building construction. Arizona remains weak, although the virtual absence of building activity during the past two years has begun to yield net absorption of commercial and industrial space. Financial Sector Twelfth District bankers report generally good conditions and significant earnings growth. Loan volume is up, with particular strength reported in real estate and mortgage lending. Deposits continue to shift away from savings and demand deposit accounts and toward certificates of deposit and money market demand accounts, increasing the cost of funds to banks. Several bankers note that competition for deposits is stiff, since customers are very conscious of yields and account fees.