Summary Most Federal Reserve districts describe the growth of economic activity as modest or slow, although regional variation in activity is substantial. Consumer spending has been mixed, but most districts report strong sales of apparel and cars recently. Manufacturing conditions are generally satisfactory or improving in the nation's Southern and Western regions, but some weakening was noted in New England and much of the Midwest. Construction activity is mixed. Agricultural conditions continue to improve over much of the nation. Consumer Spending Merchandise sales have been mixed across the country. Retail sales have expanded at satisfactory rates or above in the New York. Philadelphia, St. Louis, Minneapolis, San Francisco and Kansas City districts. Boston, Richmond and Dallas all report that retail sales have softened in recent months, while Cleveland reports mixed sales patterns. In several districts, increased sales of women's apparel have spurred overall apparel growth. Inventories appear to be under control in the New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis, Minneapolis and Kansas City districts, while in Boston and Cleveland, inventories are a bit high. The sales outlook for the remainder of the year is optimistic in the Richmond, Minneapolis, Dallas, Cleveland and Kansas City districts. St. Louis retailers expect sales to be flat or slightly higher, while Philadelphia retailers believe a slackening in demand through next spring is more likely than an acceleration in spending. Boston notes that retailers are split half-and-half over sales potential for the rest of 1989, while Chicago reports that retailers expect further weakness in spending on durables. A surge in auto sales has helped reduce auto inventories over most of the nation. In several districts, dealers are worried that recent incentive-boosted sales may cut into 1990 model sales. Manufacturing The performance of manufacturing is mixed, varying significantly among districts and across industries. Increased activity was reported by New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City and Dallas. Weak or slowing activity was reported by Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Louis. Although manufacturing conditions in the San Francisco District are generally satisfactory, some sectors, such as defense-related production, continue to decline. Cleveland also reports that manufacturing activity remains at a high level, but some softening is apparent in the production of steel and capital goods. Manufacturers' inventories are generally at satisfactory levels, but are being reduced from relatively high levels by producers in the Kansas City District. Five districts report that input pricing pressures have eased, while the Kansas City District reports an increase in such pressure. The outlook for manufacturing is mixed. Of the districts that mentioned an outlook, Philadelphia and Richmond contacts generally anticipate a weakening in conditions while Boston contacts expect activity to continue at its current pace through the end of the year. Several manufacturers in the Atlanta District, primarily in the chemical, textiles and primary metal industries, recently have revised their expectations for the near future upward. Construction and Real Estate District reports indicate substantial variation in the strength of construction and real estate activity. Recent strength in nonresidential construction was reported by the Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Dallas and San Francisco districts, while nonresidential activity reportedly weakened in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. Residential construction activity, though generally weak compared with a year ago, picked up in the Richmond, St. Louis and Minneapolis districts and remained strong in the San Francisco District. New York reports that homebuilding in parts of its District has been deterred by an oversupply of existing homes. Home sales picked up in the Boston, Richmond, Chicago and Minneapolis districts and remained strong in the Far West, but are slow in the Kansas City District. Several districts report that declines in mortgage rates stimulated the construction and sales of existing homes. Labor Markets Three districts report labor shortages. Boston reports that, although manufacturing labor market conditions are generally unchanged or softer, some types of labor continue to be hard to find. St. Louis reports a reduction in the availability of skilled labor in several sectors, while San Francisco noted shortages of retail and construction workers in some areas. Financial Markets The demand for loans continues to vary considerably by region and type of loan. Overall loan volume is reported up in Philadelphia and San Francisco. Commercial and industrial loan growth has been good in Philadelphia, and Richmond and Kansas City report steady demand. Cleveland, however, notes a continued softening in commercial and industrial loans. Consumer loan demand has fallen off since last year in the New York District, but Philadelphia reports that consumer loan growth has strengthened. Auto loans appear to be a major factor in determining consumer loan growth rates. Real estate lending is growing at a strong pace in Philadelphia, with San Francisco also reporting expanded loan volume. Bank earnings are growing significantly in San Francisco, while in St. Louis earnings declined in the second quarter with particular problems in real estate loans. Agriculture and Natural Resources Agricultural conditions have improved over much of the country. Recent rains have helped crops and pastures in the Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Minneapolis and Dallas districts. Despite the improved conditions, weather-related stress has damaged crops in the Plains States, Iowa, Oregon, Utah and Idaho. Dallas reports that central and southern Texas remains dry. In the Dallas and Richmond districts, agricultural prices for most commodities are relatively strong. The mining industry has showed increased activity in the Minneapolis, Dallas, Atlanta and Kansas City districts in recent months. Lumber industry contacts in the Minneapolis and San Francisco districts report difficulties in securing timber for mills.