Summary Economic conditions in the Seventh District continue to trail the U.S., but there are some bright spots. Output of autos and trucks is scheduled at high levels in the second and third quarters, steel output is rising, and commercial construction is vigorous. However, orders for farm, construction, mining, and railroad equipment continue at very low levels: demand for heavy trucks and trailers has slowed: and the depressed farm sector has weakened further. Residential construction is expected to about equal last year. Total employment is flat, with new weakness in finance and medical care. Except for autos, retail sales are lackluster. Permanent plant closings continue to be announced in a variety of industries. Many financially-stressed businesses are pushing efforts to control costs, often with plant or office closings, hiring freezes and staff reductions. The flood of imports adversely affects a broad spectrum of industry, agriculture, and transportation. Motor Vehicles Further sizable increases in domestic auto and truck output relative to last year are planned for the second and third quarters. Sales continue strong helped by cut-rate financing on some models. Some Japanese imports and favored domestic models are in short supply. Car and truck makers plan large increases in capital spending for major renovations and new plant construction. Several states have been competing for new plants, domestic and foreign, offering tax breaks and other benefits. Easing of Japanese restraints on auto exports will affect investment plans and encourage foreign sourcing. Steel Production at District steel mills is rising, but remains short of levels reached in the first half of 1984. Stronger demand for steel is centered in cold rolled and coated sheets, especially for motor vehicles, but also for appliance., office furniture, and light construction. Orders from makers of heavy machinery are only slightly improved. A Chicago area mill is running two shifts at its structural steel facilities because of plant closings by competitors in the East, South, and West. Domestic producers hope to benefit from agreements being negotiated with major steel exporting countries to limit shipments to the U.S. Steel makers continue efforts to lower costs. One of the strongest District firms recently announced plans to shrink capacity and employment substantially. Capital Goods Most District equipment producers still face weak markets. Construction, farm, and mining equipment makers are still losing money. Rail equipment orders remain very low. Orders for hoists and indoor cranes have increased, from a low level. Few large outdoor cranes are being produced. Machine tool orders are better, but still far below good levels of the past. Competition from foreign producers continues fierce, here and abroad. More U.S. capital goods producers are shifting production to their foreign plants or are sourcing abroad. Demand for automated warehouse facilities, which offer large gains in productivity, is strong. Farm Equipment A leading farm equipment maker has agreed to sell its agricultural lines, and will close two plants. Another major firm sold out earlier this year. Tractor plant closings in District states, apparently permanent, announced over the past 6 months cut industry capacity by about half. Another producer plans a 6-month halt in output of four-wheel-drive tractors to reduce inventories. Transportation Reported shipments by truck and rail have been running below last year. This is believed to reflect a shift to owner-operator trucks and private truck fleets. Demand for rail equipment remains very low and sales of heavy trucks and trailers have been slipping. The huge trade deficit has created an imbalance in ground transport, with many trailers and freight cars returning empty to port areas. Construction Commercial construction, especially large office buildings in downtown Chicago, is strong. with vacancy rates substantial, it is believed that some of these projects are being pushed ahead to qualify for tax incentives which may be altered. Heavy industrial and utility construction are at very low levels. Residential building appears to be rebounding from the effects of adverse winter weather, but is still well below levels of the 1970s. Apartment rents are rising about 9 percent this year. Apartment vacancy rates are low, but new building is weak. Highway and bridge construction is expected to continue very strong into 1986 as a result of release of impounded federal funds. Consumer Spending Sales gains have recently been disappointing at some major District general merchandise retailers. Inventories are being brought back into line, often through price promotions. Orders for standard appliances and recreational equipment have slipped below last year's improved levels. Increases in general merchandise prices continue small, around 2 percent over a year earlier. Consumer attitudes in the District remain relatively optimistic. Agriculture Conditions in agriculture continue to deteriorate, depressing local economies and industries dependent on agriculture. Prices of corn and soybeans, major District crops, have fallen 20 to 25 percent since the downtrend began last April. Surveys indicate large plantings, which could bring another year of surplus production and low crop prices. Livestock prices are down 12 to 15 percent from a year ago, but are expected to rebound by summer. Agricultural exports are expected to decline to a 6-year low. District farmland values fell again in the first quarter, by 6 percent, and were off a third from the 1981 peak, led by a decline of over 40 percent in Iowa. Payments under new government farm programs, with high enrollments in the District and the nation, will ease financial strains for crop farmers.