Summary Modest increases in March retail sales over 1984 levels were attributed in part to Easter occurring earlier this year. Business activity in two District states also remained slightly above year-ago levels though it declined from the February figures. Loan growth at District banks, on the other hand, was slower in the first quarter of this year than in the sane period a year ago, particularly at large banks. Cattle and hog prices declined unexpectedly due to increases in fed cattle slaughter and meat imports. Crops are expected to be large despite heavy participation in acreage reduction programs. Consumer Spending District department stores report modest increases in March retail sales over March 1984 levels due in part to Easter occurring two weeks earlier this year. Most apparel and accessory areas reportedly did well. When adjusted for the Easter period, March sales gains were less substantial. With the bulk of the Easter season falling in March, April sales results are expected to be lackluster when compared with last year. Employment Increases in District employment were reported in the manufacture of consumer nondurables and automotive parts, while a plant closing in the glass industry was postponed and a textile plant tins reopened. On the other hand, job Losses have occurred in the petroleum refining, telecommunications and carpet manufacturing industries. Business Activity Business activity in March, as measured by an index of seven indicators, declined in Arkansas and Missouri at rates of 3 and 2 percent, respectively. The March figures were up just over 1 percent in Arkansas and almost 2 percent in Missouri from the year-ago levels. Building materials inventories have increased in some areas of the District and are considered ample to cover short-run demand. Prices for solid wood have fallen to 1982 levels. As a result, timber and timberland values are declining in the same manner as cropland. Construction Multi-family housing construction continues strong in the District's metropolitan areas. The St. Louis area reports multi-family housing permits issued in the first quarter of 1985 were up 50 percent from the year-ago level. There was a decline of 9 percent in single- family housing permits issued over the same period. Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at large weekly reporting banks in the District grew at a 20 percent annual rate over the first three months of 1985, substantially slower than the 42 percent rate established over the same period a year earlier (all bank data are not seasonally adjusted). At small weekly reporting banks, total loans grew at an 8.3 percent rate in the first three months of this year compared to the 10.6 percent rate for the same period a year ago. Consumer lending has shown the greatest strength in March, the most recent month for which data are available, while real estate lending has been the weakest loan category at both large and small banks. Deposit growth at large banks in March, although modest at a 6 percent rate, exceeded deposit growth of March 1984. Large denomination CDs, which grew sharply in February and March of this year, are responsible for much of the increase in total deposits. Legislative activity on regional interstate banking continues in the District. Indiana recently adopted legislation authorizing reciprocal interstate banking with neighboring states; two drafts of a similar proposal have been passed in the Tennessee state Senate and House and await reconciliation before final approval from the Governor. Illinois and Missouri legislators also will be reconsidering regional banking laws in the coming months. Agriculture Missouri farmers received higher prices for vegetables, eggs, cotton and sorghum in March. Sharp declines in prices received for hogs, cattle and milk, however, led to an overall decline in the index of prices received. The declines in cattle and hog prices were unanticipated as most market observers had expected lover production to raise prices. Instead, sharp (4 percent) increases in fed cattle slaughter and strong meat imports led to price reductions. Similarly, imports from Canada have increased total hog supply and reduced hog prices. Despite widespread participation in the acreage reduction programs, intensive planting on the best land combined with average yields will produce crops equal to or larger than last year's.