The pace of economic activity in moat Federal Reserve districts appears to reflect the slower first-quarter rate of national economic growth. Retail sales generally are showing modest growth through early spring, while strength in auto sales is continuing. Retail inventories are viewed as generally satisfactory. Residential construction activity remains strong and the short-term outlook is optimistic. Commercial construction appears to be thriving in most areas. Indicators of manufacturing activity, however, are mixed. Due partly to international trade effects, the performance of many industries is weak, although steel production is increasing as is the demand for machine tools. Conditions remain depressed in the agricultural sector where downward pressures on prices, a tight cash flow situation, and increasing financial stress are pervasive. Reports on bank loan demand are mixed, both across the country and within individual districts. Consumer Spending Retail sales are generally reported to be showing modest growth through early spring. A notable exception is the Dallas district, where sales are reported below 1984 levels and are expected to remain sluggish in the near future. Some slowing in sales growth is reported by Boston, New York, and Cleveland, while Chicago calls recent sales gains "disappointing." Greater strength in retail sales is evident in the reports from Philadelphia, Richmond, and Atlanta. Apparel sales are frequently mentioned as an area of strength, and auto sales are reported as continuing strong in most districts. Retail inventories are reported to be generally satisfactory. Strong growth in tourism in the Richmond and Atlanta districts has contributed importantly to economic activity there. Manufacturing and Industry Indicators of manufacturing activity vary considerably from district to district. Recent improvement is reported by New York, Cleveland, and Richmond. But manufacturing activity has slowed in the Boston district, especially in the high-technology sector which was formerly a rapid-growth sector. Furthermore, nearly all districts report significant variations among industries and among geographic areas. Foreign trade effects continue to be very important. Atlanta reports that import competition is still adversely affecting its district industries. While growth of textile and apparel imports has recently slackened, increased imports of refined petroleum products are hurting Louisiana's petrochemical industries. Minneapolis notes that Ninth District pulp producers are being hurt by low foreign pulp prices. San Francisco reports that, due partly to vigorous foreign competition, forest products industries and primary metals industries are still the weakest sectors in the district, with a number of plant closings occurring in each industry. On the other hand, Richmond notes that coal production is off to a good start in 1985, partly due to increased exports of metallurgical coal. And exports of southern pine to Europe are on the increase, according to the Atlanta report. Steel production is rising, but remains below early-1984 levels. The stronger demand is centered in cold-rolled and coated sheets, primarily for motor vehicles, appliances, and light construction. Cleveland notes that the steel industry remains in difficulty, however. Both Chicago and Cleveland report growing demand for machine tools, but orders are still below past levels. Cleveland also states that "major producers of capital goods believe spending on plant and equipment is not likely to be slower in the second half than in the first half of 1985, despite the results of the recent survey of spending plans." Construction Residential construction activity remains generally strong and the short-term outlook is generally optimistic. Builders remain cautious, however, with speculative building reported only by Atlanta. House sales seem to be keeping pace with construction in most instances. Strength in multifamily unit construction was noted particularly by Atlanta and St. Louis. But Kansas City reports housing starts off from a year ago, and Dallas indicates a continuing slide in all residential construction. Commercial construction appears to be thriving in most areas, including both Philadelphia (where vacancy rates are below the national average) and Chicago (where the vacancy rate is described as "substantial"). Atlanta cautions about potential oversupply, however, and Dallas reports a first- quarter decline in nonresidential activity as evidence of oversupply there becomes more apparent. Agriculture Conditions in the agricultural sector continue to deteriorate in most areas, Weak export demand and large domestic supplies contribute to more downward pressure on prices of farm products. A tight cash flow situation leads lenders to foresee increasing financial stress for farmers. Kansas City reports that liquidations and partial-liquidations of farm businesses are much higher than considered normal by lenders. Farmland values are still falling, off in Iowa by 40 percent from the previous peak. A decline in pork marketings has been accompanied by weaker prices, as poultry production increased and more pork was imported from Canada. In spite of large declines in corn and soybean prices, surveys show farmers intend to increase plantings. Minneapolis suggests that overproduction of dairy output is again likely. Atlanta reports that, even with a growing imbalance between the demand and supply of cotton, Sixth District farmers plan to expand cotton acreage. Kansas City notes that the winter wheat crop is in good to excellent condition, with the potential for harvesting a large crop. In spite of soft prices and weak exports, the condition of the more diversified western agriculture appears to have stopped worsening, according to San Francisco. And Dallas reports that cropland values in Texas have risen, on the average, keeping farm bankruptcy rates lower there than elsewhere. Banking and Finance Loan growth appears to be mixed across the country and within individual districts. Large New York City banks show relatively modest growth of assets, but small Second District banks have rapid loan growth in all categories. Philadelphia and Richmond report strong loan demand growth, while weakness in loans is reported by Cleveland and Atlanta. San Francisco cites steady loan demand and an improvement in loan quality, particularly among agricultural loans. Some districts report softness in consumer lending due to aggressive nonbank competition for auto loans. St. Louis notes considerable legislative activity on regional interstate banking, among the states of its district.