Overview Economic activity in the Fifth District appears to have retained much of the momentum lost earlier in the year. There has been some pickup in the manufacturing sector where most of the earlier slack has appeared, and nearly all other areas of activity are holding their own at quite high levels or making further gains. The only area in which activity has slowed in recent weeks is automobile sales. Overall, however, consumer activity continues very strong, as do construction, mining, and tourism. Furthermore, the earlier lull in the District is not generally perceived as commensurate with the slowing of growth recently reported at the national level. In many respects the District has lagged the U.S. economy during this recovery, and perhaps some catching up is underway. Loan demand, apart from auto loans, continues strong. Progress in the farm sector is being impeded by unusually dry weather. Manufacturing The earlier deterioration of conditions in District manufacturing has been arrested, and even reversed in some sectors. New orders hive picked up, as have shipments, and order backlogs have stabilized. There seems to have been some further accumulation of inventories at the manufacturing level, primarily in materials, but the rate of accumulation slowed markedly from previous months. There is still some concern that current levels might be excessive. Despite this generally positive overview, however, conditions across the manufacturing sector are by no means uniform. Much of the recent improvement may well be in a relatively few sectors. Forest products, building materials, and furniture all appear to be doing quite well, and machinery and equipment are at least holding their own. Elsewhere, conditions are less buoyant. Coal production, however, is off to another good start in 1985, despite having had a few bad weeks as a result of severe winter weather. Weekly production is near year-ago levels, and year-to-date is only slightly below. Exports have improved, especially in the metallurgical segment which contributed so much to last year's outstanding performance in the industry. Consumer Activity The consumer remains a major force propelling business activity in the District. Despite some recent softening in automobile sales, consumer activity is almost uniformly described as strong to very strong. Apart from autos, the strength is essentially across the board. Non-durables, durables such as furniture, and services, especially those related to tourism, are performing well. Tourism is, in fact, a surprisingly bright spot in the District at present. Even relatively optimistic forecasts of tourist trade are being exceeded in many areas. Also, there seems to be a modest move underway to get away from the discounting that became so widespread in late 1984 and carried over into early 1985. Construction Construction activity also remains a major positive force in the District economy. Activity in the commercial and residential sectors is almost uniformly strong, although activity remains slightly weaker away from the metropolitan and tourist centers. Housing activity has been very encouraging to most industry participants. With construction quite strong and sales keeping market supplies moderate, the prospects for continued strength in residential building are quite good. Also, the surprising strength of tourist activity has spurred what was already a very active hotel and other facilities sector in the tourism centers. In addition, hotel, office, and shopping center construction remains very strong in most of the District's metropolitan areas. Financial Sector District financial institutions continue to experience moderate to strong growth of loan demand. Once again, apart from automobile loans, the gains have been generally across the board. There is no evidence of any strains developing as institutions meet this growing demand for credit, and there does not seem to be any expectation that such strains will develop over the next several months. Agriculture Problems continue to confront farmers in the Fifth District. A lack of rainfall during the spring has delayed the planting of some crops and is causing those already planted to develop slowly. Price levels of crops and livestock continue to be under downward pressure as weak export demand results in large domestic supplies of farm commodities. Cash flow is tight, as lower incomes and limited borrowing ability are barely adequate to service the debt loads facing farmers. According to a recent survey of District agricultural lenders, loan repayment rates from farmers are becoming more sluggish than in 1984. In addition, bankers foresee financial stress increasing throughout the year. Expectations Expectations around the District remain neutral to slightly positive, although there is evidence of modest improvement in recent weeks. That improvement, however, generally reflects the improvement in local market conditions and does not seem to carry over into the outlook for national business activity.