Introduction Economic activity in the Second District has continued to expand at an erratic pace. Department store sales softened in parts of the District, particularly in New York City. Business activity improved somewhat, as new development projects and expansions outnumbered plant closings and layoffs. Homebuilders continued to operate at full speed, impeded only by scarce labor and materials. The District's office markets were mixed, with strength in midtown Manhattan and Long Island, stability in Westchester County and northern New Jersey, and weakness in downtown Manhattan and southwestern Connecticut. Large New York City banks have been facing relatively modest asset growth. In contrast, small banks reported that the strength in the region's economy has led to strong demand for home mortgages, automobile financing, and business loans. Consumer Spending Department stores reported that the rate of consumer spending had slowed appreciably in parts of the District. In February, sales generally met expectations and were about 10 percent over last year's levels. Sales in March, however, fell significantly below expected levels for two department store chains and early reports for April reflected continuing softenings. It appeared that New York City retailers faced the weakest sales while some suburban and upstate New York merchants reported continuing gains. Inventories have been kept in check by most stores contacted, but one merchant facing persistently weak sales reported stocks that were above plan and rising. Business Activity Business conditions for the District's industrial firms have improved somewhat in recent weeks. In Rochester, more firms reported increased orders than in earlier months. For Buffalo, improving conditions have not become any more widespread, but the number of firms reporting worsening conditions was down significantly. In general, desired inventories have been rising lately, perhaps reflecting the improved outlook for sales many firms reported. Although some layoffs and plant closings continued, there was a significant increase in announcements of new development projects and expansions. An automobile producer will spend over $100 million to refurbish and retool a stamping plant in Buffalo. Another auto plant is recalling its night shift of 2,200 workers in Tarrytown. Also planned are a large computer center in Rockland County, a new chemical facility in Western New York, a power plant near Albany, and the expansion of a ship terminal on Staten Island. In the aggregate, however, manufacturing remains a weak spot even with record high employment levels in New York State. The largest plant closing announced recently was a Syracuse chemical plant, which will eliminate 1,400 jobs beginning early next year. Construction and Real Estate Commercial real estate activity continued to vary markedly by location and type of user. The demand for office space was strong in midtown Manhattan and Long Island, steady in northern New Jersey and Westchester County, and weak in downtown Manhattan and southwest Connecticut. Brokers in Manhattan, New Jersey, and Connecticut reported strong demand among small space users but surprisingly low activity for mid-sized spaces. Demand for large spaces in midtown Manhattan remained strong, especially in the services sector. Downtown, in contrast, net space absorption has fallen to zero in recent months. In Nassau County (Long Island), conversion of space to office and retail uses has made space very scarce for industrial firms. The housing market was little changed from activity levels prevailing for the past year. Builders remained very busy in many parts of the District and several faced scarcity of skilled labor or lumber and sheetrock. The outlook for the next six months is for continued strength. In New York City, the first 800 apartments to be built with funds from the State's Municipal Assistance Corporation have been scheduled for construction this summer. Financial Developments Large New York City banks showed relatively modest growth of assets. But reports from small banks in the Second District indicated that the demand for several categories of loans has been growing rapidly over the past few months, more in line with national trends. The demand for home mortgages has been especially strong, owing to the region's robust market for new homes. The increasing demand for automobile financing was a major factor in the rapid expansion of consumer credit. Business loan activity has also increased rapidly, spurred by strength of economic activity across all industrial categories.