Through late April, the southeastern economy pushed ahead, although somewhat unevenly. Florida and Georgia labor markets are generally tight, while those in Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee exhibit considerable slack. Foreign competition continues to pressure employment and industrial output, particularly in the textile, apparel, agriculture, and energy sectors. Consumer spending and installment lending advanced in lackluster fashion, although auto sales have improved since earlier this year. Southeastern construction, real estate, tourism, and convention industries all are having a good spring. In Louisiana, a soaring mortgage delinquency rate, slowing new automobile registrations, and increasing imports of refined petroleum products join the list of difficulties facing that state's beleaguered economy. Employment and Industry Competition from imports continues to adversely affect employment in the region's industrial sector. Labor market conditions are tight in the service-oriented economies of Georgia and Florida, while double- digit unemployment rates continue to plague Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee. The growth of textile and apparel imports has slackened recently. Carpet producers report a slowing of activity from last year's unusually brisk pace. Rising imports of refined petroleum products attributed to the strong dollar are adversely affecting Louisiana's petrochemical industry. However, indications are developing that domestic oil prices may be firming. Bank directors report that exports of southern pine to Germany and Italy are on the increase. Consumer Spending District retailers reported April sales to be about even with year- ago levels. However, the Easter selling season came early this year. Through April sales remained healthy and ranged from 6 percent to 12 percent above last year. Seasonal goods such as clothing, home furnishings, and lawn and garden materials were in strong demand. According to retailers, shoppers have responded strongly to post- Easter promotions. First-half sales and profits are expected to be slightly higher than last year. Auto Sales New motor vehicle sales in the Southeast remained brisk through mid- April. Industry contacts attribute healthy spring buying to dealers' offerings of limited discount financing and to continuing strong demand for minivans and light trucks. New motor vehicle registrations in the region in the January-February period were 11 percent above the corresponding period last year, compared to 7 percent for the nation. Louisiana is the only regional state which registered fewer new cars and trucks during the January-February period than last year. Construction Contacts report a generally brisk pace of single-family home sales and construction through the fourth week of April. Developers expressed satisfaction with current inventory levels. Speculative building was evident in all major cities except New Orleans, where an influx of Jefferson Parish bond money should boost the market. Mortgage delinquencies for Louisiana have climbed from 4.1 to 5.7 percent, from November 1984 to February 1985, which is nearly double the rate for any other state in the region. The multifamily market is strong, with Nashville, Jackson. and Miami experiencing improved rentals. The office market remains vigorous, particularly in Atlanta and Tampa, hut mentions of potential oversupply and a decline in construction have become more frequent. Contacts report the growing use of perquisites by leasing agents to close deals. The only major market in which contacts do not expect sizable new construction is New Orleans. Financial Services Unadjusted credit growth at large banks in the Southeast continues to lag behind December's peak rate. Weak and volatile consumer lending growth in February and March appears to be the major reason. Bank business and real estate credit both advanced in March. Preliminary data for April suggest some further weakening of total loan growth attributable to softer demand for business credit. State bank commissioners expect the Federal Reserve Board's recent limited support for interstate banking to accelerate bank combinations in the Southeast. Tourism Tourist activity has strengthened as the spring season progresses. Available air travel indicators showed healthy increases, and the number of auto travelers registering at state visitor centers was up in March. Lodging tax receipts for all states except Mississippi showed increases over year-ago levels. Convention business, particularly in Nashville, Miami, and Orlando has been strong. Contacts report advance bookings through April as very high and many feel this could be their best spring season ever. In Orlando, most hotels report higher occupancy levels than a year ago. Hotels have been running at near-capacity occupancy in some Florida resorts and cities. However, many of Georgia's attractions have experienced soft attendance in the early spring, and overbuilding has adversely affected occupancy in New Orleans' hotels. Agriculture Favorable weather accelerated planting in most of the Southeast. Reflecting the low profitability of past months, the marketing of pork and beef in the District fell in the first quarter of 1985 as a result of smaller farm inventories. Despite the 11 percent decline in marketed pork relative to a year ago, pork prices weakened and fell sharply near the end of the quarter due to increased poultry production and pork imports from Canada. Cotton, an important southern crop, faces a growing imbalance between supply and demand. Competition from foreign producers is heavy and domestic demand is weak, yet, Sixth District farmers plan to expand acreage planted this year.