Summary This District's economy continues to improve. Retail sales are rising but not robustly. Unemployment rates have fallen but remain high, especially in Ohio. Manufacturers report signs of strength, but pockets of softness remain. Some oil wells are being closed because of weak prices. House construction, sales, and mortgage refinancings are being stimulated by falling interest rates. Banks are optimistic about business loan demand, but their consumer loan growth is slowing. Consumer Spending Consumer spending in this District continues for the most part to mirror national economic trends. Major retailers report nominal sales roughly 4 percent to 7 percent above year-ago levels. Household nondurable goods and apparel sales are particularly strong, which is typical for the season. Although most retailers categorized their February inventory positions as "manageable," inventories appear to be somewhat above year-ago levels. District auto dealers express growing optimism about their 1986 sales prospects, and report that sales to date are good. Surprisingly, local auto-sales data have not reflected the monthly volatility characteristic of the national auto market. During the first two months of 1986, unit sales of domestically made new cars in this area were nearly 5 percent above year-ago levels. Most auto dealers, including some import dealers, report that new-car inventories are high. Labor Market Conditions The Ohio and Pennsylvania unemployment rates (s.a.) fell in February to 8.7 percent and 7.1 percent, respectively. Ohio's unemployment rate continued on its path of erratic monthly changes, dropping in February because employment rose while unemployment was essentially unchanged. Pennsylvania's unemployment rate continued its downward trend as employment rose while unemployment fell. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in this District shows solid signs of improvement after several months in the doldrums. New orders and production are rising but not yet robustly. Despite this good performance, employment at manufacturing firms continues the slow decline of the past four or five months. Firms also continue to reduce raw materials and finished goods inventories. On balance, manufacturing firms report paying slightly higher prices for raw materials. A few contacts report that dollar depreciation has begun to increase their export sales or increase the prices they pay for imported materials. Carbon steel prices are reported to have begun to firm and some industry representatives expect the industry profit/loss results to be better this year than last. Some strength also is reported for the aluminum industry. Nevertheless, a great deal of softness remains in many parts of this District; for example, one contact reports concern that a major manufacturing plant may shut down temporarily because of weak orders. Energy Some oil wells in southern Ohio are being closed because of weak prices and because buyers are reluctant to purchase oil when they expect further price cuts. Gas production remains good in southern Ohio. Some slight declines in steam coal prices are being reported, but a major producer reports that the price of coal is quite insensitive to falling oil prices. In many locations coal is still relatively cheaper than oil, and very large capital costs are required to convert a coal-fired boiler to oil-fired so conversions won't be made unless oil prices are expected to remain low for an extended period. Housing and Construction Realtors, mortgage lenders, and builders in this District expect the current strength of housing markets to be sustained throughout 1986, but they are skeptical of the rosier national forecasts. Mortgage lenders report that falling mortgage rates have prompted a deluge of mortgage refinancings by borrowers with high rate fixed- rate mortgages or adjustable-rate mortgages, generating substantial fee income for the lenders. They expect the strong demand for fixed- rate mortgages to persist, particularly as the gap narrows between rates for adjustable-rate and fixed-rate mortgages. Fifteen-year mortgages are popular despite the higher monthly payments. Housing and commercial construction is doing very well in some parts of this District, although there is some concern about overbuilding. A major home builder doubts that a building boom will result from the evolving single-digit interest rate environment because there is little pent-up demand for housing and lower interest rates are needed merely to keep housing activity at current levels. Realtors report closings surged in February and the inventory of listings is declining to a low level. Most realtors have no plans to add staff soon because they are wary about how long and strong the housing market rebound will remain. Commercial Banking Business loan demand at District banks is improving. Commercial and industrial loans outstanding at large banks continue to increase. Loan commitments are generally up, and contacts are fairly optimistic about future loan demand. Consumer installment lending remains good but the rate of expansion has fallen. Consumer installment credit outstanding at large banks is growing at only a single-digit pace. Bank installment lending continues to be hurt by cut-rate auto loans being offered by captive finance companies of domestic auto manufacturers.