Aided by lower interest rates, conditions in much of the Ninth District have stabilized early this year. Consumer spending, employment, and construction have all done fairly well. Construction has been generally strong, and many new construction projects are planned. Conditions in the resource-related industries, however, are still mixed, and only a little improvement was evident in the agricultural sector. Consumer Spending Retail sales of general merchandise in the district have done fairly well so far this year. After experiencing strong year-end holiday sales, one diversified retailer reports reasonable sales growth in January, traditionally a slow month, and even stronger sales in February. In addition, the retailer notes that the sharp growth in credit sales, a cause of concern in some quarters, finally slowed late in 1985. Reports from large shopping malls in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, have been encouraging, with strengthening sales also evident in February. Growth in retail sales has not been uniform throughout the district, however. For example, Bank directors from northern and central Minnesota note lackluster sales in their communities. Despite some slowing late in February, motor vehicle sales have been good so far this quarter. One domestic manufacturer reports that its districtwide sales were up about 15 percent through February, although it has a large inventory of cars and trucks available. Spurred by lower mortgage rates, housing activity has picked up in district areas with stable or growing populations. Compared with year-earlier levels, residential building contracts awarded in January were up 12 percent in Minnesota and up 19 percent in the Minneapolis-St. Paul metro area. January home sales in the Twin Cities area were also up a healthy l2 percent from a year ago. In parts of North Dakota and in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, existing home sales appear to be up this year. Employment After worsening somewhat in the last half of 1985, employment conditions have stabilized in some district areas but have worsened in others. The district's overall seasonally adjusted unemployment rate fell a few tenths to 6.5 percent in January. In South Dakota, January employment was virtually unchanged from its January record level a year earlier. The typical seasonal employment decrease between December and January was the smallest there since January 1976. In North Dakota, though, unemployment was up, primarily due to lower employment in the oil and construction sectors. Although seasonally adjusted employment in Minnesota increased between December and January, the unemployment rate still rose; however, part of the increase was probably due to some changes, made in December, in how the rate is measured. Resource-Related Industries Conditions in resource-related industries in the district have remained mixed. The drop in oil prices has continued to slow district oil and gas activity. A Bank director reports that the rig count in North Dakota was down to its lowest level in five years, 22 rigs (compared with 150 at its peak). In contrast, the falling dollar bodes well for district paper production. In Duluth, Minnesota, financing is now arranged for a big new paper mill, and another paper mill in northern Minnesota is modernizing its plant. But a Bank director reports that wood pulp logging for paper mills in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan has been hurt by imports, and a lumber mill in Montana has closed. An iron pellet plant in northern Minnesota is reopening in March, but with over 100 fewer workers than were originally employed there. A reopened copper mine in the Upper Peninsula is now hiring workers. Construction Construction activity in the district has generally been strong, and many new projects have been announced. Nonresidential building contracts in January were up 5 percent in Minnesota since January 1985. Bank directors report numerous ambitious construction projects in the works. In and around Duluth, Minnesota, several projects, including a large paper mill, a mall expansion, and expansions of several public facilities, are expected to bring $500 million of construction activity to that hard-pressed area. Noteworthy future projects in South Dakota include a convention center and hotel in Pierre and a new community to house B-l bomber personnel in the Rapid City area. North Dakota also expects to benefit from $200 million in military-related construction, in connection with nuclear missiles. Agriculture Little improvement was seen in the district's agricultural sector in the past months. Bank directors report little change in conditions in their areas. One banker in South Dakota thinks that a third of the indebted farmers there will eventually leave farming, although not all this year. On a brighter note, a Bank director reports that the winter wheat crop in Montana looks good. And prices of farm goods have increased some recently. The Minnesota farm price index rose again in January, although it still remained 9 percent below its year-earlier level. Livestock prices have deteriorated, however, even though ranchers have kept herd sizes small.