Summary Reports from respondents and other information indicate that moderate overall expansion in the Seventh District continues. The plunge in oil prices and the recent sharp drop in interest rates (which some analysts believe is related to lower oil prices) are contributing to favorable expectations regarding the economic outlook. Chicago purchasing managers reported a healthy upturn in orders and production in January and February, but not in employment. Commercial and industrial electric power usage in the region has been on an upward trend since last summer, breaking the sluggish trend of recent years. Construction activity continues at a vigorous pace in portions of the District, notably the Chicago area and southeast Michigan, but is soft in other areas, particularly in Iowa, primarily an agricultural state. Demand for motor vehicles remains strong, but will require ongoing incentive programs. Orders for steel are improved. Employment growth in this region continues to trail the nation. Heavy emphasis on cost containment, merger- related staff reductions, and plant closings have restrained hiring and caused layoffs, in a wide range of industries. Agriculture remains depressed. Farmers are confused over details of the recent farm legislation. Labor Markets After more than three years of expansion, payroll employment in the District is 3 percent below the late 1970s, with only Wisconsin higher. Manufacturing in the five-state region is 21 percent below 7 years ago, with Illinois down 27 percent. Numerous firms in various industries continue efforts to increase efficiency and competitiveness, by controlling costs, often through layoffs. Mergers and acquisitions often bring job cuts as positions deemed duplicative are eliminated. In some cases, job cutbacks result from work being shifted abroad. Examples include processing of manufacturers' coupons in Iowa and manufacturing of material handling equipment in Michigan. Announcement of 3,300 jobs to be filled at Mazda's new Michigan plant brought 110,000 requests for applications. Temporary layoffs to control inventories have recently been announced in railroad equipment and farm equipment. Permanent job cuts, often following earlier staffing reductions, have recently been reported in various industries including steel, trucking, farm equipment, medical technology, hospitals, communications gear, chemicals, and gas transmission. In some cases, job cuts are associated with shutdowns of production facilities. Plant Closings Producers of several lines of heavy capital goods in the District are responding to feeble recoveries with temporary and permanent plant closings. The leading producer of locomotives will cease production for two months at its main plant in the Chicago area and lay off 2,000 because of slack orders. An extended summer shutdown is planned at an Iowa farm equipment plant. Permanent plant closings are planned by a maker of home videodisc equipment, a manufacturer of parts for transmissions, and a producer of heavy forgings. A major producer of material handling equipment will shift one-third of its manufacturing overseas, and permanently close plants in Michigan, which had been its main facilities. In contrast, a large maker of construction equipment cancelled plans to shift certain output abroad, due to a more favorable cost picture at home. Threatened phaseout of auto assemblies at an Illinois plant was averted as a labor pact was reached after hard bargaining. Nonresidential Construction The office building boom is continuing in downtown Chicago. Despite an apparent glut of space, announcements of major new structures still appear. Soil testing work, in advance of construction, also continues at a good pace, despite concerns that contracts were being shifted from 1986 into 1985 to grandfather current tax treatment, and would slacken after the turn of the year. The pace of office building is reported to be slackening somewhat in suburban areas where it has been strong. Highway renovation definitely will be at a high level again in 1986, because funds are set aside, and work is sorely needed. Home Building Spurred by sharply lower mortgage interest rates, home construction is expected to remain at a high level in many parts of the District in 1986, relative to the early 1980s, though still well short of peaks in the 1970s. The upturn has been particularly vigorous in southeast Michigan, while activity in Iowa has been slipping. Demand for existing homes is strong in some areas, and realtors complain of a paucity of listings. The move-up share of the market has been larger than earlier in the expansion. A heavy volume of refinancing of existing mortgages at lower rates is underway. Steel District steel producers report improved orders and output. Demand from motor vehicle makers is in line with that industry's high production schedules. Activity has been very strong at steel service centers, which are doing more processing and holding more inventory for customers. User inventories are low and expected to rise. Prices are firming but remain low. Imported steel prices have risen, but much less than would be indicated by the fall in the dollar. Price increases will be reflected in steelmakers' revenues gradually as existing contracts expire. Motor Vehicles Vigorous car production plans, bolstered by a new round of sales incentives from major domestic automakers, promise a high level of activity at District assembly plants and parts suppliers in 1986. Forecasts for motor vehicle demand in 1986 generally call for a decline in total sales from 1985, and an increase in import market share. Japanese renewal of their quota on auto exports to the U.S. at last year's level supports this projection. A leading District producer of motor homes has sharply increased production, partly because of completion of an inventory adjustment in 1985, and partly in anticipation of increased demand resulting from lower gasoline prices. Consumer Spending Major chain stores in the District report 1986 sales ranging from small declines to modest increases. Retailers blame weather problems, high consumer debt levels, and generally cautious attitudes for the anemic performance of sales. The sharp drop in oil prices since late 1985 should bolster consumers' discretionary income, and may tend to raise forecasts for consumer spending. Agriculture Prices of farm commodities important in the District have trended lower since mid-January, pressured by seasonally large supplies and weak demand. Corn and wheat exports will decline again this year, probably by more than current USDA forecasts. Soybean exports, however, are rising. Exports will benefit eventually from lower U.S. support prices, lower oil prices, and the lower value of the U.S. dollar. A flurry of late Congressional actions created confusion over details of various federal farm income and price support programs. Farmers must decide whether to participate in these programs within the next few weeks, as planting decisions are finalized.