Summary The Eighth District economy continues its moderate expansion. District retail sales growth exceeded national trends while employment and nonresidential construction trailed national performance. The outlook from business and academic contacts throughout the District is generally favorable, suggesting the expansion will continue at a modest pace during 1986. Outlook Slightly more than 80 percent of the 265 District small businesses surveyed in January expected business conditions to be unchanged or better through July. Less than a quarter of the respondents foresaw a decline of their real business volume through April, while 44 percent expected an increase. Despite this generally favorable outlook, only 19 percent thought the period was a good time to expand. Most of the respondents expected no changes in their prices, work force or average compensation through April. These responses reflect little change in the expectations of District businessmen since the last survey was conducted in October 1985. A forecast by the University of Arkansas indicates the Arkansas economy will grow faster than the nation in 1986, spurred by increases in manufacturing, trade and services employment. A forecast for Tennessee economic growth in 1986 was less optimistic with nonagricultural employment predicted to grow by only 1.9 percent. Employment declines in the manufacturing and mining sectors are expected to contribute to the state's sluggish growth. Consumer Spending District retail sales increased at 4.8 percent rate in the fourth quarter while a 3.7 percent decline was reported nationally. December retail sales in the District are 21.8 percent above year- ago levels, exceeding the 6.7 percent national gain. Extremely strong December sales in Kentucky were largely responsible for the District growth. Employment Employment growth in the Eighth District continues to trail national trends. District nonagricultural employment increased at a 0.6 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter compared to a 3.5 percent rate of growth nationally. Despite a December increase, District manufacturing employment decreased at a 0.9 percent rate in the fourth quarter while no change was reported nationally. The District unemployment rate dropped from 8.3 percent in November to 7.9 percent in December. Construction District residential construction contracts grew by 3.3 percent in the fourth quarter while nonresidential construction declined by 3.6 percent. Residential contracts, while 6.0 percent above year-ago levels, trailed the national increase of 14.0 percent. Over the same period District nonresidential construction declined by 12.2 percent compared with a 2.0 percent national increase. Banking and Finance February data from large District banks indicate distinct changes in lending trends that have persisted over the past year. Commercial lending, which had been sluggish, showed a reversal in February with volume growing at an annual rate of 34 percent compared to a sharp decrease last February. Consumer lending, which has shown strong growth over the past year, declined at a 5 percent rate in February. After approval by the Missouri Senate, a regional reciprocal interstate banking bill awaits House approval. The bill has no provisions for transition to nationwide banking. The Mississippi Senate has approved a bill allowing statewide banking in 1986 and regional interstate banking in 1988. Agriculture In response to the lower loan rates of the 1985 farm bill, futures prices for the new crops of major District commodities such as corn and cotton are significantly lower than futures prices for the old crop. Given these price expectations for the coming year, participation by farmers in the government's price support programs is likely to be high, leading to large government stocks of agricultural commodities. Analysts in Kentucky expect further declines in tobacco prices associated with falling demand and continued large surplus stocks.