Economic activity in most sectors of the Southeast sustained the stronger pace that emerged around the turn of the year. Reductions in borrowing costs and prospects for substantial declines in energy prices have begun to stimulate regional industries, and employment has been growing. With some exceptions, residential and commercial construction activity remain strong. With regard to commercial space, building continues despite high office vacancy rates. The outlook for tourism has improved, and regional airline traffic has responded to declines in fares and prospects of further cuts. Consumer spending has moderated. Many of the region's crop farmers are delinquent on their loans, though prospects are better in a few selected agricultural areas. Employment and Industry Unemployment rates fell moderately in most District states from December to January. Florida and Georgia continue to post below- national jobless rates. Alabama and Tennessee are slightly above the nation, but continued weaknesses in energy and agriculture have kept rates in the double-digit zone in Mississippi and Louisiana. The region's paper producers have trimmed excessive inventories to near- normal levels, and plant operating rates have begun to climb. Sawmills are being helped by declining energy prices and imports of low-cost timber from Canada. Lower oil prices are expected to stimulate demand for petrochemical products by lowering costs and prices. Home appliance producers in Alabama and Tennessee are encouraged by the better housing situation. In contrast to declines for other textile producers, Georgia carpet mills have added 2,700 workers over the year in response to strong demand for carpets used in automobiles, offices, and homes. Consumer Spending Retail contacts report that sales in early 1986 are only moderately higher than a year ago. Most respondents also report a continued tight inventory stance in an effort to control costs more closely in an environment where profit margins are narrow. Although merchants expect only a slight improvement in March compared to last year, mild optimism prevails for the second quarter. Changing manufacturers' incentives are credited with getting 1986 auto sales off to a weak start compared to last year. Construction In most of the region, construction and sales of single-family housing remain firm to good. However, severe weakness is evident in Louisiana's markets, and several large Florida markets exhibit growing softness. Multi-family building has begun to concentrate in the stronger leasing markets. Apartment vacancy rates continue to rise in most areas as new construction outpaces absorption. Office vacancy rates remain high throughout the Southeast, yet construction continues in many markets. In those markets where office construction is dropping off, light industrial space seems to have grabbed the attention of developers. Overall, construction of retail space has attracted little new interest, and the market for industrial and warehouse space is also sluggish. All sectors of nonresidential construction are facing a slowdown in the New Orleans area, and the continuing decline in oil prices dashes hopes of any turnaround in the near future. Financial Services Loan growth at large District banks held steady in January after almost a year of consistently slowing growth. The strength of real estate and consumer lending balanced January's softer business loan demand. In February Alabama passed a regional interstate banking law which will become effective in July 1987. Now four of the six District states have interstate laws, including Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and Tennessee. Of the remaining two states without such laws, Mississippi currently has a bill in the state legislature, and a bill is expected in Louisiana when the legislature convenes in April. Tourism Data for airline passengers, auto travel, and lodging receipts indicate strong early-year performance, and contacts continue to hold positive outlooks for the remainder of 1986. Throughout the Southeast hotel, motel industry personnel are looking for an increase in domestic travel and occupancy rates due to the dollar's decline relative to currencies of most other advanced economies. There are also predictions of increased foreign travel to the United States, particularly Latin Americans to Florida. Advance convention bookings are looking good in most District markets. Regional air travelers have recently experienced much cheaper air fares, and, with the intended acquisition of the region's second largest airline by a confirmed discount carrier, air travel costs seem likely to drop further. Agriculture Financial conditions remain precarious for the Southeast's heavily indebted crop farmers. Thirty-five percent of the region's borrowers from the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) are delinquent on their loans compared with 20 percent for the nation. Mississippi and Georgia are the second and third ranking states nationally in number of FmHA delinquencies. About half (over 3,700) of Georgia's FmFA borrowers and around 40 percent of such borrowers in Florida, Mississippi, and Louisiana are delinquent on payments, and most have been mailed notices of potential foreclosure. In sharp contrast to most other farmers, poultry and vegetable producers are doing relatively well. Reduced feed costs have raised profit margins for broiler growers, while the prospective returns to Florida's winter vegetable producers are being boosted by increased acreage, with prices averaging about one-fifth above the year-ago level.