Overview Generally, Fifth District economic conditions have changed little in recent weeks. The expansion is continuing, but at a somewhat slower rate. Individual sectors are showing more variability from month to month, and inventory building seems to have run its course. The past month, for instance, drew strength from housing and construction, sales of consumer durables, and coal production. The manufacturing sector was essentially flat as imports continued to eat into sales of such goods as textiles, apparel, furniture, and lumber products. At the same time, however, manufacturers supplying the automobile industry continue to operate at near capacity, as does the paper producing sector. Despite the continued strength of imports, a lack of inventory accumulation, and the possibility of nationwide strikes that would significantly affect the District, the outlook among District businessmen remains generally positive. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity showed little change in August, but with the sizeable gains of July, the overall level is quite high. Consumer durables and capital and industrial goods continue as leaders, showing uniform strength and near capacity production. The building materials sector, a source of strength earlier in the year, seems to be coming under increased pressure from import competition, and the national market may have softened somewhat as well. Apart from the auto-related segments, textile and apparel producers report continued slack and further deterioration of their foreign trade position. Furniture producers are also reporting soft spots in their markets, but once again import competition and a slowing of inventory accumulation at the retail level appear to be at fault. Coal production is one of the truly bright spots in District activity. Despite a sharp decline this year in total exports of bituminous steam coal, U.S. coal production is running nearly 20 percent ahead of 1983, and all indications are that the Fifth District may be doing even better. Furthermore, the latest reports show that stocks on hand at domestic electric utility plants are actually down from a year ago, despite the potential for a strike later in the year. Consumption Consumer activity is still robust. Further gains in sales, particularly at department stores and general merchandise outlets, were reported for the past month. Also, sales of big-ticket items apparently rose relative to total sales. For the most part, consumers remain aggressive in their buying and borrowing, although there have been scattered reports of minor retrenching. Most respondents expect further expansion of consumer debt, at least over the remainder of the year. Comments from respondents suggest that consumers favor higher quality products and respond more enthusiastically to advertising and promotion of top of the line items. Housing and Construction The construction sector in the District is still very strong, with steady increases in commercial activity and a recent rebound from a temporary drop in the residential area. New announcements of hotel, shopping center, and urban redevelopment projects point to continued buoyancy in those sectors. Several of the metropolitan areas around the District are experiencing virtual construction booms in the downtown areas. In addition, the residential sector is seen as fundamentally strong even though it may not regain production levels of earlier in the year. Most respondents expect housing to at least hold at current levels over the rest of the year. Banking and Finance Financial institutions are showing further gains in business and consumer lending, but there is no indication that their liquidity positions will prove restrictive in the near term. In general, these institutions are expecting continued growth in loan demand, including the business, consumer, and real estate components. Yet, they seem willing and able to accommodate this growth. The Outlook and Prices Businessmen and representatives of financial institutions remain basically optimistic with regard to activity and prices over the next six months. On balance, they expect further growth in the national economy and in their respective markets, although there is a spreading feeling that the largest gains may be behind us. Negative factors most often mentioned are interest rates, the level of imports, and the prospects for strikes in major industries. There is little concern over inflation, and little reported evidence of its resurgence.