Economic expansion continued during August and early September in the Eighth District. Expectations are for continued moderate growth over the rest of the year, and many planners assume that the expansion will continue at a reasonable pace throughout 1985. Department store sales and resort businesses were strong, but residential housing sales were below year-ago levels. Construction remained on a high plateau. Factory production and employment continued to grow, but new orders were mixed. Consumer Spending Sales at District department stores continued above year-ago levels in August and early September. Several merchants mentioned that there was a lull in activity during the Olympic games, but that volume swelled afterward. Back-to-school sales were successful in late August. Despite the overall sales strength, several merchandise reduced prices of slower moving goods. Merchants are generally optimistic concerning the upcoming Christmas season. The Missouri resort industry did an unusual volume of business in the last half of August when normally activity begins tapering off. Weekday attendance at amusement parks, resorts and motels was up significantly, partly reflecting a new Missouri law delaying the start of the public school year until after Labor Day. Traffic was up over 60 percent at one major amusement park, and a large resort reported that its lodging units were 95 percent occupied compared to 60 percent at this time last year. At several dealers in the District, automobile sales were sluggish in August and early September. Others reported favorable sales and noted that they could have sold more if they still had the popular models. On balance, sales were higher than in the same period of 1983. New cars apparently sold better than used cars. Two dealers were greatly upset over recent factory price increases. Although the average price mark-up was relatively small percentage-wise, the dollar increase was said to be enough to hinder significantly sales of certain models. Small truck sales continued to run slightly ahead of year-ago levels. Housing and Construction Sales of older homes continued at year-ago rates in August and early September in the District, but according to builders, sales of new single-family homes were off 15 percent from the same time last year. Interest rates on fixed rate mortgages have declined nearly a percentage point from the peak early in the summer, but rates on variable-rate mortgages have changed little. Building costs and land values continue to rise; partly as a result, the average new home is slightly smaller than a year ago, and there has been a tendency to reduce lot sizes. Most home builders in the District remained busy, but the volume of unfilled orders has declined substantially. There has been an unusual amount of new apartment building in both Memphis and St. Louis. Nonresidential construction also continued at the earlier fast clip, with the building of many offices, roads, stores, hospitals, warehouses and hotels. Industrial production New factory orders were mixed during August and early September in the District, but production and employment inched up slightly. Demand was strong for motor vehicles and defense goods and there was an uptick in the demand for steel, which had been weak. Some businesses, such as synthetic fibers and plastics, noted a plateauing. Other businesses experienced a slackening in orders, largely because customers ceased building inventories. In the southern part of the District, a foundry is closing and an aluminum plant reduced operations because of declining sales, idling nearly 400. Because of projected flat sales over the next year, a major appliance manufacturer announced it will reduce its employment by nearly 1,700 in the next month; however, some operations are being moved to other locations. Industrial prices have risen only slightly on balance, and some profit margins have been squeezed. Foreign competition is a major factor in pricing policies. Banking Business, real estate and consumer loans continued to expand in August at 12 relatively large banks, but demand deposits declined and there was little net change in time deposits. Agriculture Rainfall was uneven across the District during the growing season causing crop yields to vary greatly. It now appears that in the aggregate, District crops will be relatively large in 1984.