Moderate economic growth continues in the Ninth District. Seasonal improvement in the labor market continues unabated. Modest consumer spending gains are reported by most sectors. While residential construction appears to have fallen off, nonresidential construction doesn't appear to have done so. Performance in the financial, agricultural, and resource-related sectors remains unchanged from our last report. Employment The most recent data show stability in the labor market. Unemployment rates in Ninth District states continued to seasonally improve in July, led by South Dakota's precipitous drop to 3.8 percent. While Minnesota's unemployment rate rose somewhat, analysts attribute most of the increase to statistical anomalies. Ninth District unemployment fell by close to 14,000 workers between June and July. Continuing stability is indicated by the increase in the Minneapolis help-wanted advertising index, which rose in July to a level 10 percent higher than a year earlier. Consumer Spending General merchandise sellers report modest gains in August. One large retailer says its August volume was slightly below expectations because of a slightly disappointing back-to-school promotion. another large retailer thinks that some cool August weather depressed its air conditioner sales. Both of these retailers recorded an 8 percent nominal sales gain over August 1983. Reports from around the district are mixed, with modest gains in diversified cities and no gains in agriculturally dependent smaller towns. By mid-August, motor vehicle sales fell off a bit from their performance earlier this year. Sales were still more than 12 percent ahead of August 1983, though. One domestic manufacturer reports particularly good gains in its truck line. While a recently established car dealership reports that business has been good, it is worried about problems created by low inventories if auto workers strike. This Bank's directors from around the district feel that, while the pace of new car sales may have fallen off a bit in August, it was still good. Home sales also appeared to fall off in August. A spokesperson for realtors says that August bookings in the Twin Cities seem to have been slower than in past years. Another analyst says that Minnesota housing market activity probably peaked in June. Condominium resales have been slow in the face of many multi-family starts. Tourist spending, while not as high as expected, hasn't been bad lately. The weather could have been better in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, where rain hurt its Labor Day weekend business. One Bank director reports that early school openings hurt resort business in parts of Wisconsin. The number of visitors to national parks in Montana this summer was from 5 to 10 percent lower than last summer, in part due to the low value of the U.S./Canadian exchange rate. Nonresidential Construction Industrial, office, and special construction projects continued despite higher interest rates. One developer in the Twin Cities reports that advance leasing of its projects in that area has been going well. Sizable demand is also indicated by declines the Twin Cities office and industrial vacancy rates. But some softening of this type of construction activity may be on the horizon, due to the congressional cap on industrial revenue bonds and recent changes in the federal tax code. Finance Between mid-July and mid-August, deposits grew slower and loans grew faster at large Ninth District commercial banks than at large banks in the nation as a whole. Commercial and industrial loans were especially strong at the district's large banks. Outside the Twin Cities, Bank directors report fairly flat deposit and loan growth. Agriculture Agricultural conditions haven't changed much from those reported earlier this summer. Crop conditions are generally good outside the excessively dry areas of the western Dakotas and northeastern Montana. For example, exceptional oat yields are reported in parts of Wisconsin. Furthermore, cattle prices are firming, and the dairy diversion program is cutting milk production. Bat low prices and high debt service continue to plague many farmers. A recent survey of Minnesota farmers found that 13 percent had high debt-to-asset ratios, in excess of 70 percent. Resources Bank directors report a mixed picture in resource-related production. Lumber in still suffering from low prices, although plywood prices have firmed a bit. But pulp demand is still strong. Coal production in North Dakota and Montana hasn't increased much. But oil and gas profits are helping to spur the economy of western North Dakota and northeastern Montana. Furthermore, Lake Superior ore shipments are greater than they were a year ago.