The economic expansion appears to be moderating to a slower but still quite brisk pace. Manufacturing remains strong despite weaknesses in certain sectors that have been adversely affected by the increased strength of the U.S. dollar. Defense and energy are the chief sources of current expansion. Retail spending remains generally strong, but several Districts are experiencing a slower growth rate. Auto sales continue to advance in most areas; where some deceleration has occurred, the reason is lack of inventory rather than dampened demand. Consumer spending for domestic travel, however, has been disappointing in some areas because of the high exchange rate of the dollar as well as rainy weather. Residential construction is slowing in most Districts, but nonresidential building is proceeding at such a heady pace in certain areas that concerns about overbuilding are mounting. Lending remains strong primarily because of expanded consumer borrowing. Farm conditions are mixed: several Districts anticipate higher yields and revenues, but poor weather reduced supplies in some states. Manufacturing and Industry Manufacturing activity generally remains strong, but most regions report slower growth in orders and employment. Inventory levels are satisfactory, for the most part, although some steel customers are cutting inventories in anticipation of an auto strike. Price increases have been modest, at worst, and some Districts report flat or declining supply prices. There is no evidence of materials shortages. Capital goods spending has been strong, but Boston reports that plans for 1985 show no increase over current levels. Defense orders are a source of manufacturing strength for St. Louis, New York, San Francisco, and Atlanta. Energy demand is sustaining industry's momentum in the Dallas, Minneapolis, Richmond, and Atlanta Districts. Demand for coal as well as pulp and paper is contributing to the strength of manufacturing reported by Richmond, Minneapolis, and San Francisco. Auto and related production is another source of continuing growth, especially in New York, Richmond, and St. Louis. Weakness is concentrated in industries sensitive to import competition, but this effect appears widespread geographically more than half the Districts mention it. Industries affected include aluminum, steel, copper, machine tools, shoes, textile, apparel, and lumber. Setbacks in the lumber industry are also attributable to slower residential construction, which is precipitating layoffs by furniture producers and building material suppliers as well. Consumer Spending Retail sales, spurred by back-to-school spending, generally strengthened in late summer. However, Cleveland, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco report a slower rate of growth. The relative strength of spending on hard goods and soft goods varies. Boston and Richmond report that hard goods are increasing their share, but Dallas and San Francisco note a softening of spending on consumer durables. Auto demand remains strong in most parts of the country and would be higher if more of the popular models were available. In contrast to the shortage of new cars, inventories of other retail goods generally are reported to be satisfactory. Inventory-to-sales ratios in the Philadelphia District are intentionally high because of anticipated strong demand through the fall. Price competition and promotions appear to be helping retailers attract buyers and move goods. Many buyers are using available credit lines but seem to be paying their bills without difficulty. Looking ahead, retailers, as usual, are optimistic, although auto dealers fear the consequences of the threatened strike. Summer tourist expenditures are below expectations in most areas. The effect is greatest on attractions; business and convention travel is helping to boost the lodgings and air transportation sectors of the industry. However, St. Louis and Philadelphia report that late summer visitations at certain resort areas were up substantially. Boston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Minneapolis attribute the lackluster performance of vacation goers on rainy weather and the strong value of the U.S. dollar, which discourages Canadian tourists from visiting border resort areas and encourages increased travel abroad by Americans. Construction The residential sector continues to slow in most Districts despite generally declining mortgage rates. Atlanta, New York, Cleveland, and Richmond are experiencing continued or renewed strength, but most other Districts report substantial slowing in residential construction and sales, particularly of single-family houses. The August issuance of mortgage revenue bonds in Ohio stimulated an otherwise sluggish residential sector there. High-income home buyers, many of whom are making purchases with cash, account for New York's strong showing. Apartment vacancy rates are increasing, and some regions express concern about overbuilding in the multifamily sector. Nonresidential construction is characterized as surging in Atlanta, Minneapolis, Richmond, San Francisco, and St. Louis. Concern over high and rising office vacancy rates is widespread and mounting, especially in Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco. However, commercial vacancy rates in Minneapolis have been declining, and New York reports low office vacancy rates in Manhattan. Finance Loan demand remains firm in most Districts. Consumer lending is the leading component of current growth. At least half the Banks report increased consumer borrowing, and New York and Chicago note that delinquency rates are quite low, given the increase in consumer credit. Many Districts report an increased pace of real estate lending, especially for nonresidential projects, although Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Dallas report a slowdown in such lending. The rate of business loan growth varies between regions. Deposit growth is advancing in Atlanta and Kansas City, but Dallas, Philadelphia, and Cleveland describe the pace as flat or declining, and deposit growth has slowed in Minneapolis. Agriculture The outlook for agriculture is mixed. Notwithstanding a drought in June and potential crop damage from Hurricane Diana, the Southeast is experiencing favorable growing conditions, and farmers may enjoy near-record yields. St. Louis and Minneapolis also anticipate good yields except in areas most affected by poor weather. The Philadelphia District had adequate rain, and farm income there should be improved, especially for growers of corn, potatoes, soybeans, and blackberries. Several Banks also note the positive effect of increased Soviet purchases. However, droughts in portions of the Dallas and Kansas City areas should depress yields. San Francisco describes price conditions for fruit and vegetable farmers as "dismal." In addition, the farm sector, especially in Minneapolis and Kansas City, continues to face financial difficulties exacerbated by low prices for many commodities, falling land values, and the high cost of servicing existing debt. Farm equipment sales are below expectations, and Chicago notes manufacturers are cutting back even more.