Overview Some further moderation is apparent in Tenth District economic activity. While retail sales are expected to improve further, housing activity and mortgage demand are generally slowing. Inventories of both retail goods and materials inputs are at satisfactory levels. Price increases have been small, and are expected to continue so. Total loan demand at district banks remains relatively constant while deposits are higher. Fall crops in most district states are suffering from dry weather. Retail Trade Retailers report year-to-date sales up as much as 10 percent over a year ago. Sales have generally improved in the last three months, with apparel and accessories selling particularly well. Stronger sales are expected for the rest of the year. Retailers seem satisfied with inventory levels and plan no changes in the near future. Prices have generally been flat in the last three months, with some price declines reported. Automobile Sales Automobile dealers throughout the Tenth District continue to report improved auto sales compared to a year ago. Credit market conditions are satisfactory and financing is available both for floorplanning and customer purchases. Dealers in some areas report that only lack of availability is constraining sales. Dealers are optimistic about sales for the rest of 1984 and early 1985. Their only concern is over possible supply interruptions due to a strike. Purchasing Agents Purchasing agents generally report input prices from 2 percent to 10 percent higher than a year ago. Most respondents had either unchanged prices or quite small price rises in the past three months and virtually all expect steady input prices for the balance of 1984. Some firms are experiencing slight increases in lead times for materials, but no materials availability problems are reported and none are anticipated through 1984. Most respondents report satisfactory materials inventory levels, with several having trimmed inventories recently because actual sales are running below forecasted sales. Housing Activity and Finance Residential construction activity in the district is mixed both by type of structure and by location. Starts of single-family units are generally down, particularly since June. Starts in multi-family units range from below year-ago levels to considerably higher. Overbuilding of multi-family units is reported in some areas such as Colorado Springs and Oklahoma City. Housing starts are expected to slow through year-end if interest rates remain at, or rise above, their current level. Sales of new homes are generally down from last year, with much of the slowdown occurring since June. Inventory levels range from satisfactory to larger than desired. New house prices are stable. Building materials are in good supply and are expected to remain so. Prices for materials are generally steady, although sheet rock prices are still rising in some areas. Demand for mortgage funds and mortgage commitments at savings and loan associations is slowing from a generally robust Spring due mainly to the sizable increase in both fixed and adjustable mortgage rates over the past several months. Most respondents expect mortgage demand to continue decreasing, although rates are expected to be stable or down slightly. Savings inflows are higher than last year, but respondents generally anticipate a zero inflow or net outflow over the remainder of 1984. Banking Total loan demand was generally constant over the last month at Tenth District banks, although real estate and consumer loans rose slightly. Commercial real estate loans were slightly stronger than residential loans. Some respondents report difficulty in competing with finance companies on consumer loans. Commercial and industrial and agricultural loans were flat. Total deposits were higher, mostly due to increases in Super NOW, MMDA, and IRA and Keogh accounts. Conventional NOW accounts rose slightly. Demand deposits were flat, while large CD's and passbook savings accounts declined. Almost all respondents report no change in their prime rate in the last month, and the majority do not foresee a change in the near future. Consumer lending rates were unchanged at most of the banks surveyed, with the rest reporting higher rates. None of the respondents expect further changes in the near future. Agriculture Dry conditions in several district states will affect production and yields of fall-harvested crops. In Missouri, where spring flooding prevented timely planting, lack of moisture and hot weather have cut expected crop yields. Corn yields are expected to be halved and soybean yields will also be substantially reduced. In Kansas, dryland milo production is well below average and rain is needed to prepare the fields for winter wheat planting this fall. Irrigated crops in the state are doing well, however, especially irrigated corn. Cotton yields in Oklahoma will be well below normal, and rain is also needed there for preparing winter wheat ground. Nebraska and Colorado are not as dry as the other states. Their corn crops are in good shape, as are soybeans in Nebraska. In general, Nebraska and Colorado crop production has been very good this year. Livestock production has not suffered as much as crops from dry conditions, nor has marketing of cattle been affected by the weather. Colorado, parts of Kansas, and Nebraska have abundant feed, both in pastures and hay. In Missouri and parts of Oklahoma and Kansas, however, rangeland is dry and cattle weight gains have been slower than normal. Bankers expect below-normal paydowns on their agricultural loans by the end of the year, and some expect more problems with agricultural loans this year than last year.