Summary Growth of economic activity in this District appears to be slowing. Labor market conditions softened recently and price increases are slowing. Retail sales gains continue to shrink on a year-over-year basis. Manufacturing activity continues to expand, but at a slower pace than in early summer. Inventory trends are mixed but suggest slow growth of inventories. The downtrend in housing activity has been temporarily interrupted by funds from a special Ohio bond issue. Business loan demand is flat while consumer loan demand remains strong. District Labor Market Conditions Labor market conditions in the District have softened. Employment fell and unemployment rose in Ohio in August, causing the unemployment rate to rise to 9.8 percent (s.a.), its highest level since May and only 1.5 percentage points below its level of a year earlier. Nevertheless, Ohio manufacturing employment continues to increase slowly while average weekly hours worked by manufacturing production workers continues to decline. The decline in overtime in manufacturing has been pulling down the average weekly earnings of manufacturing production workers in the last few months. Prices Upward price pressures are easing but concern about inflation continues. Purchasing managers report continued slowing in the rate of increase in prices paid for commodities. One group reports prices are increasing at the slowest rate in a year. The rates of increase for prices paid for services and equipment are higher than for commodities and are slowing only slightly. A survey of midwestern manufacturing firms reveals a smaller percentage of firms are raising prices now than were doing so earlier in the year. Nevertheless, contacts report there remains substantial concern about inflation and they believe that increases in the rate of inflation would cause a resurgence of inflationary expectations. Retail Sales Major department store chains in this District report year-over-year sales gains continue to slow in most product lines. Nevertheless, unwanted inventories are not accumulating at the retail level. One major chain expects year-over-year gains will continue to shrink to 8 percent in the fourth quarter of 1984 and 7 percent in the second quarter of 1985. Cleveland area auto dealers report strong sales demand continued in August but in early September moderating consumer appetite and inventory problems have resulted in a mild sales slowdown. Dealers say an auto strike at the onset of the 1985 model year would sharply reduce fourth quarter domestic sales. Import dealer outlook for the fourth quarter is more positive because 1985-model deliveries are easing quota-induced shortages. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity continues to expand. Purchasing agents report new orders continue to increase at a slower pace than recently in Cincinnati but more rapidly in Cleveland. Order backlogs remain flat, as production continued to increase steadily. Major steel producers report orders and shipments fell in June and July as customers reduced inventories, particularly in anticipation of an auto strike, and steel imports remained strong. Orders for steel improved slightly in August and steel producers expect further improvement in orders if there is an early labor settlement in the auto industry. A producer of consumable supplies used in mining reports a slowing of orders. Inventories Inventories show mixed trends. A survey of purchasing agents in the Cincinnati area indicates manufacturers' inventories of raw materials are being held constant, but purchasing agents in the Cleveland area indicate manufacturers raw materials inventories are being increased as a hedge against lengthening lead times. Both groups report continuing slow growth of finished goods inventories. Steel users, especially in the auto industry, and steel distributors continue to trim inventories. Housing Housing activity in Ohio experienced an unexpected, one-time surge in August because of lower-cost financing made possible by state- issued mortgage revenue bonds. Although the near-term outlook of market participants remains gloomy, optimism is surfacing that housing activity will improve by mid-1985. Most market participants expect 1984 to closely approach the sales pace and profits of 1983. Builders remain cautious and, except for August, have been experiencing a steady dwindling of their order backlogs. Housing completions were strong during July and August and new orders, which typically are seasonally low, registered unexpected gains because of the bond monies. Also, as a result of bond monies, lenders recorded stronger-than-expected loan volume during August, but otherwise are experiencing a gradual slowing of mortgage originations. Realtors report an unexpected surge of new contracts in August, principally from homebuyers using mortgage bond monies. Contract closings in August, which resulted from June's sales, also exceeded projected levels by a wide margin. According to realtors, the overall deceleration of housing activity will reverse in mid-1985 if interest rates fall and another dose of mortgage bond money becomes available. Commercial Banking Business loan demand has been relatively flat recently at District banks, but consumer loans continue to grow at a strong pace. Bankers expect consumer loan demand to remain quite strong and business loan extensions to pick-up moderately in the next few months. Banks appear to be funding new loans to a large extent by stepping up their issuance of large certificates of deposit and reducing the volume of federal funds sold. Although District banks registered increases in time and savings deposits, these gains were negated by declines in transaction deposits.