The Twelfth District economy continues to grow, but at a slower rate due to weakness in certain sectors. Retail sales at department stores and automobile dealerships are reported to have dropped in August, although there may have been extenuating circumstances such as the effect of the Olympic Games and shortage of popular automobile models. Nonresidential construction activity continues to pick up, with additional projects announced recently. But rising mortgage interest rates have further reduced both the construction and sale of new homes. Weakness in certain industries, especially primary metals and lumber, is slowing the overall growth of manufacturing employment. The agricultural sector has been experiencing a dismal summer as overly abundant harvests have brought low prices for fruits and vegetables, and farm land prices have continued to drop. Banks reported strong consumer loan growth in August, but most expected some slowdown. Consumer Spending Retail sales at department stores and shopping malls are reported to have dropped off in August, following a favorable month in July. For example, the four major department stores in Southern California experienced a noticeable slowdown which reduced their year-to-year gain in sales for that month to 13 percent compared with 17 percent in July. A similar slowdown was reported for stores in Washington and Utah. In Southern California, some of the slowdown occurred because residents stayed away from the stores during the Olympic Games. But the fact that sales fell even further in early September suggests that consumers may be becoming more cautious. Back-to- school apparel sales were disappointing, while sales of furniture and appliances declined. The slowdown has left retail inventories above desired levels. As a result, retailers plan to restrain their inventory investment until just before the Christmas holiday season. Automobile sales apparently also fell in August, but respondents attributed at least part of the decline to extreme shortages at the end of the model-year. Despite the pause, retailers expect a strong Christmas selling season. Manufacturing and Mining The growth of manufacturing employment in most Twelfth District states has slowed during the third quarter, reflecting weakness in such important industries as primary metals, lumber and petroleum refining. Aluminum companies in the Pacific Northwest and copper producers in the Intermountain states have been curtailing operations recently as the rising foreign exchange value of the U.S. dollar has increased the influx of lower-price imports and forced domestic producers to reduce their prices. The administration's decision in early September to deny copper producers import protection suggests that further layoffs will occur in that industry. Pacific Northwest lumber mills increased production in August, following extended vacation closures in July, but output still remained well below levels reached earlier this year due to the downtrend in national homebuilding activity and inroads by Canadian lumber imports. Two lumber companies declared bankruptcy in August due to their inability to pay for high-cost public timber under contract, and numerous others also could be forced to go out of business if Congress does not grant the industry contract relief. Fortunately, the paper segment of the forest products industry is experiencing extremely strong demand. The largest gains in manufacturing employment continue to occur in those industries benefiting from rising federal expenditures for defense and space programs and increased business investment. These include the electronic equipment, aircraft and missiles and nonelectrical machinery industries. Construction and Real Estate Housing starts in the West have shown further weakness recently, with the pace now off about 25 percent from this year's peak reached in January. Sales of new homes have declined by a similar percentage from levels reached earlier this year. Permits point to a further slowdown in homebuilding. The inventory of unsold new homes has risen but is not considered to have reached a disturbing level, partly because developers have attempted to protect themselves by building mainly on a pre-sold basis. Home prices are about equal or slightly higher than those of a year earlier. The use of creative financing is rising. In addition to below market interest rates, some builders are offering to pay all closing costs. Despite rising interest rates, nonresidential investment continues strong in the West, with a large number of office towers, shopping malls and hotels planned or under construction in major metropolitan areas. Office vacancy rates in these areas already are considerably above the national average. Rental rates are falling, and bankers are concerned that a serious excess supply of office space may be developing. Agriculture This summer has been dismal for the California agricultural sector. Unusually hot weather either damaged fruit and vegetable crops or alternatively hurried their harvest, flooded the market with excess supplies and reduced prices below the break-even point for many growers. The fact that the heat caused many crops to ripen all at once aggravated the downward pressure on prices. Table grape prices have been the lowest in three years. The raisin inventory already amounts to two years' consumption, so the current harvest of raisin grapes is expected to bring very low prices. Similarly, the nation's largest winery, Gallo, is reported to be offering only 40 percent of last year's price for wine grapes not already under contract. The hot weather helped spur the growth of the California cotton crop, but the strong U.S. dollar and prospect of record world production have caused futures prices to move even lower recently. In California, Utah and other Intermountain states, the livestock sector has not shown significant improvement. In August, beef cattle prices were just about equal to last year's level, while dairy cattle prices were well below the level of a year earlier. Farm and ranch real estate values continue to fall, especially for nut and grape acreage in the San Joaquin Valley area of California. Financial Institutions In August, consumer credit (not seasonally adjusted) at large banks in the Twelfth District grew at a 24 percent annual rate. This represented the largest monthly increase in 1984 and offset weakness in commercial and real estate lending. A sample of smaller institutions showed similar behavior. These increases continue the pattern of strong consumer loan growth shown earlier this year. Bankers in the region attribute the strength to improved economic conditions which have boosted consumer purchases of new cars and recreational vehicles. While a number of banks also report strength in home equity loans, others have experienced slow to flat demand for those loans as consumers have shifted to use of personal credit lines and credit cards for financing. The forecast for consumer credit remains mixed. Many banks expect these loans to continue to grow rapidly through year-end. However, an even larger number of institutions expect slower growth in personal income and rising interest rates to cause a slowdown in both consumer spending and borrowing. A few of these already have experienced a falloff in consumer loan demand.