Business activity in the First District remains robust. Retailers are enjoying strong back-to-school buying and are optimistic about third and fourth quarter results. Manufacturers report that orders and shipments are significantly above year-ago levels. In some cases, the order rate has slowed from earlier this year, but the manufacturers affected do not view this as indicative of future weakness. Both retailers and manufacturers are generally satisfied with inventory levels. Price increases are reported to be very modest and respondents seen to be lowering expectations about future inflation. In banking, business lending is well above year-ago levels, but competition among banks for these loans is intense. Retail First District retailers continued to make gains. Two stores reported bumpy summer seasons but strong results for the end of August and the first weeks of September as back-to-school buying got underway. The up-and-down summer results were attributed, in one case, to the disruption caused by a major renovation and, in another, to weaker-than-expected tourist purchases. Tourist-related sales were especially disappointing in Maine where Canadian tourists appear to have been discouraged by the exchange rate. Other contacts also mentioned disappointing tourist activity, on Cape Cod and in Connecticut. Hard goods continued to outpace soft, particularly women's sportswear, which is coming down from several years of excellent growth. Prices of hard goods are stable to falling, and one merchant commented that promotional discounting of all goods is so widespread that consumers can always get high value for their dollars. Inventories, whether high or low, were reported to be causing no problems. Consumers' credit use is trending up, but merchants do not consider this a source of concern. One store has moved up its "buy now, pay next February" promotions from Christmas to the fall.Manufacturing A number of manufacturers, producing a variety of products, have seen a slowing in orders from earlier this year. However, orders remain healthy, substantially above 1983 levels. The affected firms do not view the slowing as a precursor to any major weakening in the economy. Some capital goods producers are experiencing strong and increasing orders. Overseas markets are said to be picking up slightly, but subsidiary operations are faring better than exports. Respondents' capital expenditures are considerably above those in 1983. Preliminary capital budgets for 1985 are about the same as 1984, although one contact noted that it would not take much of a deterioration in orders to discourage capital expenditures. The emphasis in capital spending continues to be on productivity improvements. Respondents were unanimous in reporting only moderate increases in materials prices; wage pressures were also said to be moderate. Respondents are increasing their own prices very little, if at all. Manufacturing inventories have increased in proportion to sales; for the most part, the firms contacted are not uncomfortable with these increases, but one plans a major inventory reduction drive. Banking Reports from the banking industry indicate that loan demand is strong but the competition for loans is also vigorous. One respondent finds that business lending, particularly for commercial and industrial real estate, has been robust. However, another contact observes aggressive competition for loans from out-of-state banks.