Introduction Second District retailers experienced a relatively weak summer, but all other segments of the regional economy report continuing strong and stable growth. Department store sales generally failed to match expectations in July and early August, for the first time in several months. Nevertheless, New York banks are sharing in the nationwide surge of revolving credit loans. Homebuilders reported a strong market dominated by high-income buyers and significant numbers of cash customers, and the suburban construction industry is generally working at capacity. Office space remains scarce in midtown Manhattan, but increasing vacancy rates are a concern elsewhere in the District. The employment outlook in New York and New Jersey is still improving as a result of the announcement of plans for more major expansion projects. Consumer Spending Retail sales in the Second District were very soft during July and early August. Volume generally fell short of retailers' expectations for the first time in several months. Local merchants reported July sales gains averaging only 5 percent over the same period a year ago, and only one major retailer registered a very large increase in business. In early August, the weakness persisted. Shoppers were widely believed to be staying home to watch the Olympic games. Most of our contacts reported improvements of varying magnitudes afterwards, and sales figures for the entire month ranged from a decline of 1 percent to an increase of 17 percent. Inventories have been brought more in line with desired levels over the past two months, with levels now averaging 20 percent aver last year as compared to nearly 30 percent in May and June. However, in light of recent soft sales, retailers are still assessing their forecasts and their future inventory needs. Financial Developments Even with the slowdown in retail sales growth, New York State banks report that both the number of active revolving credit accounts and the proportion of available credit lines drawn down have been expanding rapidly. At the same time, high interest rates have encouraged households to pay off balances at least as fast as or slightly faster than in the past, and the proportions of delinquent accounts are at record low levels. Bankers attribute the rapid growth of revolving credit to the proliferation of new revolving credit instruments and the general strength of income and employment in this region's economy. Business Activity Economic conditions showed further moderate growth in the District during recent weeks. Upstate purchasing agents reported a modest expansion of new orders in August and inventories were generally at satisfactory levels. The automotive industry remained strong: a major producer began accepting job applications for the first time in four years, and a tire manufacturer broke ground for a $100 million plant expansion. Additionally, a $1.3 billion defense contract was awarded on Long Island, and an electronics firm is moving some operations from the south to its facility in the Schenectady area. Five television series are planned to begin production in New York City this fall and winter. The unemployment rate, seasonally adjusted, declined in both New York State and New Jersey during August, in contrast to the unchanged rate for the nation as a whole. New York's 7.7 percent was slightly above the U.S. average of 7.5 percent, while New Jersey's rate of 6.l percent remained below the nation's. Construction and Real Estate Residential building activity remains brisk in the region, and order books are largely filled for the year. Activity is limited by continuing shortages of skilled labor in New York City suburban areas. Ongoing construction has benefited from employment growth in high-salaried technology industries. Cash purchases and private financing have helped sustain the District's solid, upper-tier housing market, even with increasing mortgage interest rates. Nonresidential construction continued at its strong pace throughout most of the Second District. The major exception is midtown Manhattan, where lack of sites and high construction costs are restricting the supply of new space. Observers are looking to new development projects in places such as Times Square, south midtown, and the Hudson River area to provide relief. New York's downtown vacancy rate continues to grow as new buildings are coming on line at the same time as the financial services' industry has been weakening, and demand for in-town back-office has been depressed by high prices. On Long Island, leasing activity remains brisk, but observers are not certain that demand can keep pace with the amount of speculative construction activity.