Summary Business conditions in the Seventh District appear less robust than earlier in the year. Payroll employment, adjusted for seasonal trends, has been about level since the first quarter. Steel output declined in August contraseasonally. Farm income remains depressed and farm equipment producers have scheduled extended plant shutdowns. Demand for mechanical equipment, generally, has failed to show expected gains. Retail sales improved in late August, but merchants report intense price competition. Housing activity has softened, but is holding up better than some realtors had expected in view of high financing costs. Auto sales continue to be limited by availability of preferred models. Lack of progress in the auto industry's labor negotiations casts a heavy shadow over District centers specializing in production of motor vehicles and parts. Inroads of imports in markets for am ever-broadening spectrum of consumer and producer goods present a serious threat to the viability of many producers of goods. Employment Payroll employment in the five District states has increased only half as fast as in the nation since late 1982. Compared to June 1979, employment in the five-state area was down 8 percent in contrast to a 5 percent rise for the nation. Moreover, while the national total continued to rise through August, District employment, seasonally adjusted, has been about even since February. Iowa employment showed a slight decline in the recent period and has been below the level of late 1982. Despite strength in the auto industry, employment in Michigan has been stable since February, both in manufacturing and nonmanufacturing. Estimated unemployment as a percent of labor force in the five-state area, while still above the national average, has declined more than the national rate since late 1982, implying withdrawals from the labor force. Iowa's statisticians estimate its unemployment rate well below the national average in the face of its poor economic performance. These comparisons cast doubt on the use of unemployment rates as measures of economic well-being for states and localities. Recent weeks have brought new layoffs of hourly workers in steel, farm equipment, autos, and construction components, and white-collar staff cuts in manufacturing, financial services, and health care. Steel Operating rates in the District's steel industry were lower in August than in July and trended downward through the month. This development had not been anticipated last June. Since steel consumption is believed to have held up, the decline in domestic steel production is attributed to increased imports coupled with reductions in user inventories. A larger proportion of steel going to fabricators has been coning from steel service centers, rather than direct from the mills, partly because of hand-to-mouth inventory policies under which smaller quantities are ordered at one time. A large share of foreign steel comes through service centers, many of which are owned by foreign steel producers. Farm Equipment Through much of the first half of the year, District producers of tractors, combines end other farm equipment clung to the belief that the year would see modest increases in sales to farmers, perhaps 10 percent. However, sales have been disappointing all year and, in July, were far below last year's dismal pace. As a result, extended shutdowns of major plants have been announced, plants that had been operating below 50 percent of capacity in some cases. In addition, further substantial cuts in white-collar staff are planned, apparently of a permanent nature. Reasons for poor sales of farm equipment include depressed farm income, increased imports, and a large supply of good used equipment, often disposed of at auctions. Machine Tools The Biennial International Machine Tool Show opened in Chicago on September 5 for a nine-day stay. A thousand exhibitors and 100,000 visitors are expected, about the same as in recent years. The upcoming show may have been responsible for some of the slowing in orders for metal-cutting machine tools in June and July. Sales are higher this year, but well below the levels of the late 1970s. Moreover, a sharp uptrend in imports since then has increased the share of market accounted for by imports from 20 percent to near 50 percent in 1984, over 50 percent for metal- cutting types. Some U.S. producers are incorporating foreign components in their machines or are offering complete foreign machines under domestic name plates. Capital Goods, General Demand for mechanical capital goods produced in the District, while varying greatly by type, remains soft overall. Heavy construction equipment is almost as weak as farm equipment. Sales of heavy-duty trucks leveled off in late spring after a rapid rise. Bookings of trailers, many of them tandems counted as two units, are still in excess of capacity. Freight car deliveries in 1984 are now estimated at 12,000, double last year's total, but only a fraction of the 90,000 shipped in both 1979 and 1980. Auto companies, recording record profits, have sharply increased appropriations to buy presses, machine tools, robots, and other items intended to update facilities and reduce labor requirements. New plans by electric utilities are at the lowest level in many years. Auto Labor Talks At this writing, chances of a settlement of the auto industry labor negotiation before the September 14 contract expiration date appear dim. On September 6, with only 8 days to go, the UAW named General Motors as its "target" for concentrated discussions. Many large issues must be resolved: wages, COLA, holidays, pensions, medical benefits, mandatory overtime, outsourcing, job training and retraining, and, perhaps most difficult, "job security" (guaranteed employment). Reported profits of the big auto companies have been huge, but analysts warn that funds are vitally needed for investment in new facilities. Modern plants abroad have much lower labor costs. Cars, small trucks and components from Japan are the main current concerns, but major components also are coming from Mexico and other nations in which U.S. firms have subsidiaries. Korea, with labor costs well below those of Japan, is a potentially serious competitor. The choice of GM as the target has significant ramifications. With 350,000 union workers, a strike at GM would exhaust the UAW's record strike fund three times as fast as a strike at Ford with115,000. GM, with very low inventories of finished cars, assembled 57 percent of the autos and 42 percent of the trucks produced in the U.S. in the first months of 1984. Moreover, GM produces a larger share of its components than Ford or Chrysler. A long strike at GM would be reflected noticeably in total industrial production and GNP. A 67-day strike against the company occurred in 1970. Retail Sales Sales of apparel and back-to-school merchandise picked up in late August, helped by warm weather. Consumers have continued to purchase major appliances at a record pace. Unlike autos, sales of appliances have not been limited by availability. Retailers complain of intense price discounting, especially from competitors trying to reduce excessive stocks. After improving last year and early in 1984, sales of recreational vehicles softened in the summer. General merchandise prices average no higher than last year currently, a surprising development to most analysts who had expected some increase. Credit use (especially through bank cards) has been heavy, but delinquency experience has been quite favorable.