The Third District economy is still growing in September, led by strength in the retail sector. However, there is some easing in activity in other sectors. Manufacturers are seeing a slight slowdown, although some specific indicators are posting gains. Bankers report that consumer lending is thriving while commercial lending is slowing its pace. In the agricultural sector, farmers, with few exceptions, report a good year. Area resorts, faced with rainy weather and tough competition for tourist dollars, have turned in a mediocre season. In general, contacts look for continued slowing in all areas except retail sales and consumer lending. Manufacturing Respondents to the September Business Outlook Survey indicate that growth in the local manufacturing sector is still positive but is easing. Forty-three percent of the manufacturers surveyed this month say business activity continues to increase while only 6 percent report a decline; just over half say there has been no change over last month. Despite the apparent cooling of the current business climate, most specific indicators show improvement over last month. New orders and shipments lead the pack, with 44 percent and 52 percent of manufacturers, respectively, citing increases. Only inventories and unfilled orders remain unchanged in September, with delivery time, employee payrolls, and the average workweek all posting slight gains. The near-term outlook for local manufacturing is beginning to dim, according to this month's survey. However, while the portion of respondents expecting further growth in the next six months is the smallest it has been since June 1980, it still remains significant at 43 percent. Manufacturers' expectations about specific indicators are in keeping with the anticipated easing in future business. Survey respondents look for a reduction in inventories, and they plan to hold employee payrolls and the length of the average workweek at current levels. The portion of respondents reporting increases in industrial prices has fallen for the second month in a row. Seventy percent of the executives polled this month say input prices are stable, and a like portion reports no change in the prices of finished goods. Looking ahead, approximately two-thirds of respondents predict that they will be paying higher prices for raw materials within six months and about half expect to receive higher prices for their output. Retail Retailers in the Third District report strong sales over the past six weeks, with back-to-school promotions and cool weather in late August giving sales a boost. Contacts in the retail industry indicate that big-ticket home furnishings are moving well, along with children's apparel. Inventories are slightly heavier than usual, relative to current sales, but are in line with expectations for the next four months. Sales are currently running 10 to 25 percent above last year's levels, and retailing executives say they are looking forward to tallying up an overall good year with the help of the holiday season. Financial Third District bankers are sending mixed signals on their loan activity. Contacts continue to see a slight slowdown in the rate of growth of commercial loans but report that the dollar volume of C&I loans is still up substantially over year-ago levels. Consumer lending has not faltered at all and is registering increases in the range of 20 to 28 percent over last year. Local bankers are lowering their expectations for commercial loan growth in the near future, but their optimism continues to be buoyed by strong prospects for growth in the consumer lending area. The prime rate has been holding steady at 13 percent since the end of June. Third District bank economists foresee no fluctuations in that rate before the end of the year. The general easing in the economy has induced contacts to revise their federal funds rate forecasts downward slightly with the year-end rate expected to hover around 11.5 percent. Agriculture Third District county agriculture agents report that 1984 has been a premium farming year in terms of weather. After a dry, underpar season last year, plentiful rainfall has helped to produce a bumper crop of both sweet and feed corn, along with a healthy crop of blueberries and soybeans in south Jersey, exceptionally large fruits in Pennsylvania, and a strong potato crop in Delaware. Field and cereal crops are very good, and farmers expect to benefit from the easing of restrictions on grain exports. Weather did have some damaging effect on two crops this year. Peaches in New Jersey are down by about two-thirds due to a frigid winter, and tomato yields are running about 60 percent of normal, owing to cracking caused by too much rain. Dairy farmers in Pennsylvania are having a good year and note that the consumption of milk is up about 6 percent. Chicken farmers, their flocks depleted last fall and winter by Avian flu, have excellent prospects for production when the quarantine on chickens is lifted shortly. Farm prices, in general, have held steady since last year. While record yields in corn and potatoes in particular tended to push prices for those two crops lower, corn farmers still can expect to be "in the black" for this year. Grain sales to the Soviet Union are expected to boost prices and help local farmers. Farm income is expected to be slightly better than last year, although peach farmers will be hit fairly hard. Peach crop yields in New Jersey and the surrounding Pennsylvania and Delaware counties were low enough to qualify farmers for Farmers Home Administration low-interest loans. Tourism Resort business in the Third District was disappointing to most vacation-spot entrepreneurs this year. Wet, unseasonable weather kept many vacationers at home through midsummer, but that was only one of the factors keeping the lid on local travel. Both European travel, encouraged by the exceptionally strong dollar, and summer Olympics in Los Angeles were tough competitors for tourist dollars. South Jersey seashore reports saw a drop in visitor volume of about 10 percent from last year, a result not only of rainy weather and cold ocean temperatures but also of the strong American dollar, which has cut the number of Canadian visitors virtually in half. Only in Atlantic City, where casino gambling flourishes, was business better than last year. In the Pocono Mountains, as elsewhere, weather caused a disappointing June and July, but August showed surprising strength due mostly to last-minute bookings. Gross dollar volume this summer could run 3 to 5 percent above last season. Pocono resorts have excellent prospects for the fall.