Overview Most sectors of the District economy grew moderately in June and early July, although finance and residential real estate slowed somewhat. Manufacturing and retail activity rose, and modest price increases were seen in both sectors. Port activity and tourism picked up. and commercial real estate activity was strong. Mortgage originations and consumer lending, however, declined slightly. Agricultural activity was at a normal level. Consumer Spending Respondents to a regular mail survey indicated that District retail activity increased in June. Sales. wages. and shopper traffic rose, but employment, big-ticket sales, and inventories changed little. Survey respondents indicated that retail prices increased 0.3 percent in June, and they expected prices to increase 1.3 percent during the next six months. They also foresaw increased demand for their products in the months ahead. The District's board of directors reported that retail sales, especially sales of autos and building materials, generally were strong in their areas. They noted, however, that consumers continued to be price conscious and willing to shop at several stores before making a purchase. Manufacturing A mail survey of District manufacturers showed increased factory activity in June. Survey respondents reported increases in shipments, the volume of new orders, order backlogs, and the hours worked per week. Despite increased factory activity, there was no rise in factory employment. Capital expenditures were up compared to six months ago. Manufacturers expected shipments and capital expenditures to increase during the next six months, but they anticipated no change in employment. Finished goods prices were steady; raw materials prices increased, but by less than the general inflation rate. Producers expected these price trends to continue during the next six months. Service-Producing Firms Respondents to a mail survey of District service-producing firms indicated higher revenues and wages in June. Employment changed little, except for increases in the wholesale and health services sectors. Service prices rose 0.2 percent in June, and respondents looked for them to rise 0.7 percent during the next six months. Respondents also expected demand for their services to increase. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity in June and early July was higher than in May and a year ago. Over the last several weeks, many beach area hotels were reported booked to capacity; the Fourth of July weekend was especially busy. Other beach and mountain area hotels and resorts experienced increased bookings. All respondents expected tourist activity for the remainder of the summer to be above last year's level. Ports Representatives at the District ports of Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk) indicated that both exports and imports were higher in June than in May. Compared with a year ago, imports were higher, but exports were unchanged. Baltimore reported that warehouses were filling up because of increased imports but noted that the weak dollar could soon shift activity from imports to exports. Finance District financial institutions indicated that lending activity slowed slightly during the last six weeks. Mortgage originations declined somewhat, and refinancing remained weak. Consumer lending also declined slightly, although it remained at a fairly strong level. Interest rates on both mortgage and consumer loans rose. Commercial lending remained weak, and rates were unchanged. Most lenders were cautious about future loan demand and expected slow to- moderate levels of activity through the summer. Residential Real Estate Real estate contacts reported steady buyer traffic but fewer home sales in June and early July. Homebuilders said there were fewer starts and building permits because of fears of future mortgage rate hikes. Home prices were unchanged; lumber prices and construction wages were stable, although the cost of other building materials rose. Commercial Real Estate District contacts continued to report strong leasing activity in June and declining vacancy rates, creating shortages of space in some areas. The supply of newer office space was particularly tight. The price of commercial office space continued to inch upward, especially in suburban areas. Increased prices of newer space led some businesses in Charleston, W.Va., to move to older, less expensive buildings to save money. Financing for speculative construction remained tight; however, real estate agents anticipated new build-to-suit construction in some areas. State Revenues State government revenue forecasters said tax collections from June suggested that economic growth in Maryland and South Carolina slowed slightly but remained steady in the other states. Agriculture Crop and weather conditions were normal across most of the District in recent weeks. Scattered rainfall brought relief to crops in many areas, although some remained dry, and temperatures were above- normal in others. Corn and soybeans generally were in fair-to-good condition. Hay cutting was underway, and the harvesting of tobacco, vegetable crops, and peaches was beginning. The small grains harvest was nearly complete, and reports suggested good yields.