Overview Businesses contacted in July indicate that signs of recovery are spreading slowly through the Southeast. Retailers report continued sales improvements which included scattered gains in consumer durables. Manufacturers' reports continue to be mixed, but more told of increased orders and production than earlier this year. Though home sales leveled off, inventories of unsold homes have fallen and building has edged up in a few markets. Industry contacts report that cotton and peanut crops have shown marked improvements from earlier rain-related conditions. No exceptional wage or price pressures were reported. Retail Sales June and early July retail sales have maintained the modest growth rate posted in the spring. District retail contacts all stated that apparel and home furnishings were leading the sales increases; reports on durables were mixed. One large retailer reported that furniture and appliance sales are down after doing better earlier in the year. Although, three out of four automobile dealers contacted increased orders of new models in response to better sales, their orders are still below last year's levels. Merchants plan no increases in orders except for apparel, and inventories continue to be lean. Reported declines in June retail advertising confirm retailers' cautious behavior. Tourism and convention travel continues to do relatively well. Adjusting for normal seasonal fluctuations, contacts in Atlanta, New Orleans, and Orlando report further monthly increases in convention bookings and visitors for June and early July. The owner of an economy hotel reported that business "bounced back" in the second quarter and future sales look promising for that segment of the market since travelers continue to trade down in the cost of accommodations. Manufacturing Mixed manufacturing reports mirror the scattered improvements noted by retailers. A little over half of the manufacturers contacted saw evidence of a turnaround in orders. Textile producers unanimously report increased work hours and production levels in response to rising orders. Producers of refrigeration and air conditioning equipment, and carpet and carpet tiles all report stronger orders and production over previous months this year. A furniture manufacturer has increased production in response to better sales. A spokesperson for an automobile company expects one assembly plant in the region to soon increase hours worked in response to rising orders. Exports of paper products and kaolin continue to grow. The remainder of the manufacturers have not yet seen any improvement in orders. A heavy equipment dealer, upon seeing further declines in sales early this summer, made additional inventory reductions. In Florida, a packaging company contact reported that June sales were down significantly on a year-to-year basis while a building materials manufacturer with excess inventory has seen no rebound in sales and is continuing to trim payrolls. Farm equipment sales have not recovered from their earlier depressed levels even though the weather has improved significantly. Grain and phosphate rock exports remain weak. Financial Services Three out of four bankers contacted reported some increases in June and July loan demand over last year. A few bankers also indicated that a strengthening of the financial condition of their customers has resulted in a slightly higher loan approval rate. A real estate lender in Georgia said that improved profitability of single family homebuilders has helped this June's new residential construction loans to significantly exceed last June's levels. However, some residential and commercial developers still say that they cannot get the financing to build. Auto dealers emphasize that credit terms are tight. Credit terms for small businesses do not appear to have eased. Construction Most residential realtors reported that home sales leveled off in June and July at levels about even with or slightly above those of last year. Higher FHA down payments have reportedly knocked out some potential home buyers. Diminished new home inventories have recently stirred activity in some residential markets. All commercial builders contacted believe that nonresidential construction has hit bottom but no rebound is expected for some time. Public projects are still the only reported strength in nonresidential construction throughout most of the region. Wages and Prices Employers generally report no increases in wage pressures. Substantial layoffs over the last year have increased pools of job applicants. Some natural gas producers are scaling back production and contemplate layoffs as a result of depressed prices. Several leasing agents reported that office rental rates have leveled off in the last sixty days at about thirty percent below last year's rates. Rising lumber prices have raised residential construction costs; however, homebuilders noted that they have been purchasing appliances at prices below those four or five years ago.