Summary The District economy remains sluggish. Car sales have picked up slightly, but spending on general merchandise is flat. Manufacturing activity is mixed and residential construction remains weak. Shipping companies report declining business. Loan growth at large District banks has picked up in recent months. Weather-related problems continue to hinder agricultural production. Consumer Spending Most retailers of general merchandise report that sales have not strengthened appreciably since spring and, in real terms, are down from a year ago. Inventories are generally at planned levels. Some retailers feel that consumer confidence is increasing, but that heavy debt loads are forcing many consumers to curtail their purchases. Declining prospects for farm income are expected to reduce retail sales in some rural areas. Some contacts anticipate a slight sales increase in the third quarter, while others expect no increase before the fourth quarter. Most car and truck dealers report that sales have strengthened slightly in June and July, though they remain below last year's level. Reduced profit margins and slow sales have lowered dealers' profits. Many customers are buying used cars rather than new ones. Inventories generally are near desired levels. The outlook for vehicle sales is cautiously optimistic; some contacts expect a moderate pick-up as 1992 models are released. Manufacturing Unlike most District manufacturers, food processors have continued to add workers in recent months. Some District poultry processors, for example, are expanding their facilities and workforce. One contact, however, reports that the Soviet Union, a primary buyer of U.S. poultry, has cut its orders for poultry because of a shortage of hard currency. Some manufacturers making auto-related goods, such as chemicals and plastic products, have received increased orders. One steelmaker, who has ordered intermittent layoffs this year, expects increasing orders from the auto industry, which will make further layoffs unnecessary. This contact anticipates, however, that orders from the commercial construction industry will remain at their currently low level. The indefinite shutdown of another steel factory was attributed to a sudden downturn in orders for castings for railroad freight cars. Construction and Real Estate Residential construction activity remains depressed throughout most of the District. Homebuilders in St. Louis, Memphis and Little Rock report that year-to-date, single-family home permits are still substantially below year-ago levels. Contacts report some strengthening in the second quarter, however. Louisville continues to be a bright spot, with new home prices steady and year-to-date permits down just slightly from a year ago. Other contacts report that declines in existing home prices have depressed new home prices. In addition, rising lumber costs have squeezed builders' profit margins further. Nonresidential construction activity, with the exception of seasonal infrastructure repair work and other public works projects, remains weak. Shipping Contacts report that depressed economic conditions in North America and Europe have led to a decline in the business of two major express shipping firms. One company spokesman expects that revenues will continue to be depressed by the soft worldwide economy in the next few months. The U.S. recession has resulted in intensified competition in the trucking industry and has led to the liquidation of an Arkansas-based trucking firm, idling 3,800 workers in the Midwest and South. Banking and Finance Total loans on the books of 12 large District banks rose slightly from mid-May to mid-July, after a small decline during the previous two months. Real estate loans increased almost 4 percent during the period, compared with 1 percent growth from mid-March to mid-May and 2.6 percent growth a year earlier. Commercial and industrial loans outstanding declined just 0.6 percent during the past two months, after a 3.6 percent drop the period before. In contrast to other loan categories, consumer loans dropped more than l percent from mid-March to mid-May, after rising almost 1 percent during the previous two months. Agriculture and Natural Resources Significant yield reductions, resulting from weather-related diseases, caused the recently harvested winter wheat crop in the District to be at its lowest level in several years. Hot and dry weather is beginning to stress the corn, soybean and cotton crops in most areas. The exceptions are west central Illinois and parts of northern Missouri, where corn and soybean crops are reported in excellent condition. Because of the costs associated with the delayed spring plantings in the Delta region of the District (for example, additional tillage operations and increased chemical usage), this year's crops, primarily cotton and rice, will be among the most expensive ever to produce. As a result, some farmers are reported to have exhausted their short-term credit lines. Contacts report that a decline in available Pacific Northwest timber acreage and a rise in lumber prices, associated primarily with the spotted owl protection plan, has stimulated increased inquiries to Southern lumber producers. Two large plywood producers have even increased shipments to the West Coast.