Overview District economic performance was mixed from June through mid-July, and some of those surveyed expressed concern over the evidently slow and uneven pace of the recovery. Manufacturing improved, but retailing and commercial lending apparently did not, and no improvement was seen or expected in commercial real estate. Most state budgets had been balanced; at the time of the survey, however, South Carolina and the District of Columbia were still revising their spending plans. Agricultural conditions remained favorable, though inadequate rain threatened crops in some parts of the District. Consumer Spending Our regular survey of retailers indicated that business slowed in the past month. Most retailers noted declines in their sales and shopper traffic, as well as in their inventories, employment, and capital expenditures. Their wages and prices rose somewhat. Despite slower current activity, respondents were optimistic about the business outlook for the next six months. Most expected general economic conditions to improve locally and nationally, and they also expected a rise in their own sales and shopper traffic. Wholesale and retail prices were also expected to rise. Manufacturing Our regular mail survey of manufacturers indicated that District factory activity improved slightly in July. Manufacturers reported stable to higher levels of shipments and new orders. Inventories and order backlogs apparently fell, while other business indicators remained steady. A majority of manufacturers foresaw improvement over the next six months in national and regional business conditions and increases in their own shipments, new orders, and prices. Economic Recovery We asked our manufacturing and retailing respondents if they thought the recession was over. Nearly half of the manufacturers believed the recession had bottomed out, both for themselves and for the economy as a whole, while less than a fourth thought it had not. Retailers had mixed feelings about whether general economic recovery had begun; almost half believed that the retail sector was still in a downturn, while less than a third thought the downturn had ended. Port Activity Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that exports rose and imports fell in June from May and from a year earlier. Exports were expected to increase faster than imports throughout the remainder of the summer and fall. Those surveyed thought that the declining dollar had boosted exports. Hampton Roads reported stronger exports of higher-valued items, such as industrial machinery, to Northern Europe. Coal exports rose at both Hampton Roads and Baltimore. Tourism A telephone survey of District hotels, motels and resorts indicated that tourist activity remained flat in July despite some reports of a strong July 4th. A majority of respondents expected tourism to remain lackluster for the rest of the summer and into the fall. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that the demand for commercial and industrial loans weakened slightly in June and early July. Few new businesses reportedly sought financing. Loan delinquency rates evidently edged down. State Budgets According to a telephone survey of state budget forecasters, four Fifth District states entered the new fiscal year with their budgets balanced. South Carolina was in the process of revising its spending plans in response to new revenue estimates. West Virginia had no shortfall going into the new fiscal year, and the other states corrected their shortfalls by either reducing spending, increasing taxes or a combination of both. The District of Columbia's fiscal year ends September 30 and some revenue shortfall remained when the survey was taken. Further budgetary actions were expected, including possible D.C. government employee layoffs. Housing A survey of homebuilders suggested that the housing market was steady in recent weeks. Builders reported little change in starts and most indicated that sales were flat or slightly up, with low- priced and medium-priced homes selling best. Inventories of unsold homes reportedly fell. Nearly all builders said that home prices were steady, despite a rise in lumber prices. Most expected no improvement in housing activity over the next few months. Commercial Real Estate Real estate contacts said that District commercial construction had come to a standstill. Weakness was especially pronounced in the Washington, D.C. area, where prospects for an upturn ware termed poor because of high vacancy rates. In other large cities, commercial real estate markets were sluggish, though less than in Washington, and problems were even less severe in smaller District cities. Agriculture Conditions in the District's farm sector were generally favorable, according to analysts contacted, but hot and dry weather conditions in Virginia and Maryland threatened crops. Throughout the District, the planting of soybeans and the harvesting of small grains were almost complete. The condition of soybeans, corn, pastures, fruits and vegetables was reported to be good in most areas. Tobacco marketing was underway with both production and prices reported strong. In Virginia and Maryland, hot temperatures and scarce rainfall had begun to stress crops. Corn, soybean, and peanut yield prospects were beginning to dim, and the crops faced severe damage if adequate rain were not received soon.