Overview Economic conditions in the Tenth District appear to be improving modestly. Supporting growth in the district are steady to slightly higher retail sales, increasing new home sales, continued strength in the livestock sector, and increased drilling for oil and gas. Further momentum is expected from increases in housing starts and auto sales in the last half of the year. Neither retailers nor manufacturers are adding to inventories, and both retail and wholesale prices are generally holding steady. Retail Sales Retailers report steady to somewhat higher sales over the last three months. Clothing and seasonal merchandise sales are strong, although home furnishings sales remain sluggish. Retailers generally expect strengthening sales over the last half of the year. Prices have been steady to somewhat lower over the past three months and are expected to remain steady. Most retailers are satisfied with their current inventory levels. Auto sales are mixed across district states. Some potential buyers have to shop around to get loans, but adequate financing is available for dealer inventories. Dealers are striving for lean inventories even though sales are expected to increase in the second half of the year. Manufacturing Purchasing agents report steady to slightly lower input prices compared with three months ago. Input prices are generally expected to remain stable over the next three months. Materials are readily available, with no problems expected for the rest of the year. Most firms are maintaining or reducing inventories. Some plants are increasing operations but are not putting pressure on either labor supplies or plant capacity. Energy Energy activity in the district has edged upward in recent weeks in response to modestly higher oil prices. The average number of operating drilling rigs in district states increased from 230 in June to 243 in the first three weeks of July. Despite this improvement in drilling activity, the district rig count remained about 20 percent below its year-ago level. Moreover, weak prices for their products have discouraged producers of natural gas and sour crude oil (especially abundant in Wyoming). Housing Activity and Finance New home sales are generally steady to slightly higher, but housing starts across the district are mixed. With sales expected to be steady to slightly higher in the months ahead, a declining inventory of unsold homes is likely to encourage further gains in starts later this year. Builders report no problems acquiring materials, although lumber prices have been climbing. Most savings and loan respondents report increased net deposit inflows last month. Respondents expect inflows to continue in coming months. Mortgage demand and commitments are stable, although respondents expect somewhat stronger demand for housing finance later in the year. Mortgage rates have stabilized and are expected to fluctuate in a narrow range for the rest of the year. Banking Changes in loan demand were mixed at district commercial banks last month. Demand for consumer loans at most banks was stable to up slightly, while demand for home mortgages was generally stable. Demand for commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans varied widely. Most banks report declines in their loan-deposit ratios. Total deposits were generally stable or up slightly, with demand deposits accounting for most of the strength. None of the respondent banks changed its prime rate last month, or expect to change it in the near future. Consumer lending rates were generally unchanged, although several respondents had reduced their rates. No banks report changes in other lending terms. Agriculture The cattle industry remains a major source of strength in the district farm economy. A combination of low feed costs and high feeder cattle prices have boosted profits for district cattle ranchers. Pastures and rangelands are generally in good shape, providing abundant, low-cost forage for cattle herds. Despite strong profits, ranchers are expanding their herds cautiously. High feeder cattle prices and a sharp decline in fed cattle prices have squeezed profits for district cattle feeders. While an unusually large number of cattle on feed has pushed fed cattle prices down in recent weeks, prices are expected to rebound later in the year. The winter wheat harvest is complete in all district states except Wyoming. Overall, the district's crop is about a fourth smaller than last year's bumper crop, due to smaller planted acreage and lower yields. Yields vary from 20 percent above normal in southwestern Oklahoma to 30 to 50 percent below normal in parts of Missouri and Nebraska. Reduced production of spring-planted crops is also possible. The district's corn, soybean, and milo crops got a strong start due to plentiful spring rains, but more rain is needed now. If the recent hot, dry weather continues, crop yields could be sharply reduced.