Summary Economic conditions are weak in much of the Twelfth District, with particular stress reported in southern California. Conditions in Utah, Idaho, and Washington are reported to be relatively strong, but few signs of expansion are reported elsewhere. Layoffs are reported to be continuing in several sectors, including defense- related manufacturing, banking, retail, and state and local government. The rebound in California and Washington residential real estate seen since the end of the Gulf War shows signs of tailing off and commercial real estate remains weak. Exports to Pacific Basin and Latin American nations, however, remain a source of strength for agriculture, lumber, and manufacturing. While consumer price inflation has been temporarily boosted by increased sales taxes, underlying price and wage increases are reported to be moderate. Business Sentiment Economic expectations of Twelfth District business leaders showed little change in July. Respondents remain pessimistic about future national economic growth, with 68 percent projecting GNP growth of less than 2.5 to 3 percent over the next four quarters. This proportion, however, has fallen steadily from 100 percent at the end of 1990, and only nine percent of western business leaders now expect the U.S. to remain in recession during the coming year. Three-quarters of western business leaders expect no improvement in the unemployment rate over the next year. About half of respondents continue to project improvement in business investment, housing starts, and inflation during the next four quarters. Wages and Prices Wages and prices are increasing at moderate rates throughout the Twelfth District. In the Pacific Northwest, manufacturing and lumber industry wages are up 4 to 5 percent from last year. Retail nondurable prices are reported to be flat to up slightly. Prices in California were affected by a rise in the general sales tax, an expansion of coverage to include snacks, newspapers, and magazines, and an increase in taxes on alcohol. Food prices are reported to be stable, and livestock prices remain at relatively high levels. Substantial discounting was reported for computers, hotels, fast food, and designer clothing. Respondents from banking and service sectors report stringent efforts to control costs in response to weak markets and competitive pressures. Retail Trade and Services Consumer spending remains sluggish throughout the Twelfth District. Auto sales in Utah Arizona, and Idaho are reported flat. Department store sales still are slow, but inventories remain under control. Some retailers are scaling back hiring substantially, especially in southern California. Japanese tourist visits to Hawaii have picked up recently, but their spending remains below pre-Gulf War levels. California state government workers are facing pay cuts, work furloughs, and reduced hours in response to budget cuts. Respondents report recent layoffs among lawyers, accountants, architects, real estate firms, banks, and community colleges. Manufacturing Manufacturing conditions in the West are mixed. Boeing continues to operate at or near capacity and has plans to expand and modernize facilities over a 10-year period. Metals industries, however, are facing sluggish demand and some firms supplying the aerospace industry currently are operating at less than 50 percent of capacity. Exports remain a source of strength for District manufacturers. During the first quarter, all new orders at Boeing were from foreign carriers. Small- to mid-sized communications, electronics, and paint-products firms reported increased orders during the second quarter. Foreign inquiries also have been made for the purchase of military helicopters. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Agricultural conditions in the Twelfth District are generally good, but recent unseasonable weather hurt some crops including the table grape crop in the southern San Joaquin Valley. Exports of agricultural products to Latin America are a source of strength. Mexico in particular is a growing market for California pears, peaches, wine, and nuts, and Washington apples. Lumber industry conditions remain weak, with orders and prices slipping in recent weeks. Year-to-date lumber exports (volume terms) were up 2 percent through April, as a 37 percent decline in exports to Canada was offset by a doubling of exports to Mexico. Log export volume to Japan has dropped 32 percent, but exports to other Pacific Basin markets have increased 42 percent. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate markets remain weak in much of the West. The rebound in California and Washington markets seen after the Gulf War shows signs of tailing off. Home sales have picked-up somewhat in Los Angeles, but the rebound has moderated in Sacramento and Seattle with unsold inventory putting downward pressure on prices. Commercial real estate in southern California continues to face high vacancy rates, declining rents, and a lack of financing. Respondents report that several southern California real estate development firms are under financial stress. Real estate markets in Utah remain strong. Financial Institutions Financial institutions in the Twelfth District report mixed conditions. In California, loan demand remains weak while deposit generation is solid, led by strong growth in money market deposit accounts. Mortgage demand is strong in Oregon and Utah. In Hawaii, loan demand remains high, but it is becoming more difficult to secure financing from mainland U.S. and Japanese banks. Respondents in southern California report the unavailability of long-term financing for commercial real estate except for "institutional grade" projects with long-term leases already in place.