Overview The business recovery in the Tenth District appears to be quickening, led by strong growth in retail sales in recent weeks. New car sales are improving, with some depletion of stocks below desired levels. Other retail inventories, as well as materials inventories are generally viewed as satisfactory. A moderate slowdown in housing activity is expected for the rest of the year, with demand for mortgage funds weak at thrift institutions. Record yields were recorded in the harvest of winter wheat, but corn yields will suffer if extreme high temperatures continue. Loan demand at commercial banks has increased moderately, with most of the increase in consumer loans. Deposits are also up moderately. Retail Trade Retailers report nominal sales gains in the 3 to 10 percent range for the first half of 1983 compared to the same period a year earlier, with particularly strong growth in the past 4 to 8 weeks. Sales of apparel are showing considerable strength due in part to the beginning of back-to-school sales. Retailers expect sales to continue growing through the remainder of 1983. Inventory levels are generally satisfactory, and little further correction in these levels is expected during the rest of the year. Purchasing Agents For about half of the firms contacted, input prices remain lower than in July of last year. But most input prices either have increased over the last three months or have quit falling. Most purchasing agents expect prices to increase somewhat over the rest of the year, although a few foresee no further changes. Firms are generally satisfied with current inventory levels and plan to keep inventories low as the recovery proceeds. Auto Dealers Automobile dealers report improved sales in the first half of 1983 compared to the first half of 1982. Dealers have depleted their stocks of 1983 model cars, in part because of the attractive rates offered by captive financing companies. Inventories of larger cars are especially low. Most. dealers express optimism about the outlook for car sales but state that sales could be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. Housing Activity and Finance Housing starts are about double last year's rate, with single-family starts improving more than multi-family starts. Because sales of new homes are also higher, inventories remain low. For the rest of 1983, the improvement in housing starts is expected to moderate because of recent increases in interest rates and uncertainty about future sales. Even with a moderate slowdown, however, housing starts this year are expected to significantly exceed housing starts last year. Most savings and loan associations report an improvement in savings inflows in the first half of 1983 compared to the first half of 1982, and continued improvement is expected through the third quarter. Mortgage rates range from 12 percent on variable rate mortgages to 13 3/8 percent on fixed rate mortgages. At those levels, demand for mortgage funds is reported to be weak at almost all institutions. Mortgage rates are expected to remain steady until near the end or 1983 and then decline slightly. Agriculture Harvesting of winter wheat throughout the Tenth District is virtually complete with record crop yields. Most wheat farmers stayed with the PIK (Payment-in-Kind) program resulting in a significant amount of wheat being plowed under to comply with acreage restrictions. Some District farmers receiving PIK payments have used the receipts from sales for debt repayment, but most grain received is being held rather than sold in the market. Corn growers report little damage yet from persistent high temperatures but damage will likely escalate sharply if the heat persists. Corn released from the reserve program is being held for cattle feeding rather than being sold in the market. The overall condition of livestock in the District is good, in spite of slower weight gain in cattle due to heat related factors. There is little evidence of herd expansion activity by hog producers. Although farmland values throughout the Tenth District are reported by bankers to be stabilizing or rising slightly, not much land is changing hands. The PIK program appears to be aiding farmers as they have increased loan repayments and are making fewer requests for renewals or extensions of existing credit. Banking Tenth District banks report a moderate increase in loan demand due mainly to growth in consumer loans, especially automobile loans. Although residential mortgage lending also increased, the demand for home loans is as expected to decline sharply in the coming months as mortgage rates drift upward. Commercial and industrial loans increased very slightly at Tenth District banks, and agricultural lending remains flat throughout the District. Tenth District banks report no change in loan quality since last month's survey. The prime lending rate is 10.5 to 11 percent, unchanged from last month. Deposits are up moderately at Tenth District banks. Growth in money market deposit accounts, money market certificates, and small saver certificates is responsible for most of this increase. About half the responding banks report increases in IRA and Keogh accounts. Demand deposits, conventional NOW accounts, and Super-NOW accounts remain constant. Tenth District banks are allowing large CDs to run off, reflecting expectations of only modest loan demand in the immediate future.