Overview The Fifth District economy is continuing to experience a broad based expansion. Manufacturers are continuing to report gains in shipments, orders, and order backlogs. Also, manufacturing employment is reflecting this increased activity. Retail sales remain relatively robust, particularly in big-ticket lines. Housing construction and sales are generally holding at or near the vastly improved levels of recent months, and there are scattered reports of some resurgence in commercial construction activity. Principal areas of concern are the export markets, particularly for textile products, and the farm sector in light of recent adverse weather patterns. Manufacturing Activity in the manufacturing sector continues to expand broadly. Shipments, new orders, and order backlogs are generally up over the past month and inventories have apparently continued to run off. Manufacturing employment has also risen, as has the length of the average workweek. Textile and furniture manufacturing appear to be experiencing particularly rapid recoveries, although export markets for their products remain very soft. Manufacturing inventories and plant and equipment capacity appear generally satisfactory. There remains, however, little expectation of much capacity expansion this year. Capital spending, it is thought, will go to modernization and relocation, each with cost and/or labor saving objectives. Current distress points in District manufacturing are almost entirely older or less efficient plants that are being phased out of operation. Consumer Spending By and large, District consumers remain moderately active, although much of the recent sales gains appears to have been concentrated in big ticket items, particularly automobiles and durable goods associated with purchases of houses. Furniture and appliances, in particular, seem to be doing well. Otherwise, retail sales have been moderate. There is some evidence that retailers, at least in some cases, are continuing to allow inventory run off despite the generally held expectation that sales will pick up as the recovery progresses and reports that delivery times are beginning to stretch out for some types of products. The widely, though not universally, held expectation of continued growth in consumer spending is based largely on growing consumer confidence, improved consumer liquidity, and the belief that the recovery is still gaining momentum. The possibilities of a short- lived or very moderate recovery have not been ruled out, however, and could lead to little or no growth in sales, particularly of autos and other big-ticket items. Housing and Construction While remaining somewhat spotty, the housing sector is still a bright spot in most parts of the District. Construction and sales have continued strong although there are some signs of slowing activity in recent weeks. Mortgage interest rates have increased slightly in most areas in the past few weeks. Fixed rate mortgages are still popular and reports are that the variable rate instruments are not being received well by consumers. As a result, there has been a tendency for mortgages to have shorter maturities and higher down payments in return for lower rates. The markets remain basically optimistic. There are also reports of a resurgence of commercial construction activity in some areas, although these remain exceptions. Highway work is apparently providing a significant boost to the non- residential sector in some areas as well. Banking and Finance Loan growth appears to have been moderate recently. The greatest strength has been in demand for residential mortgage and consumer installment credit. In most quarters, this pattern of growth is expected to continue for the rest of the year. Recent business loan demand is generally described as more sluggish. Agriculture There is widespread concern over the prospects for the District farm sector. Reduced acreages resulting from PIK program participation combined with unusually hot, dry weather experienced of late are giving rise to concert over the level of output of some crops and over the potential availability of feed grains.