Summary Economic conditions in the Fourth District continue to improve. Employment is rising although unemployment rates show little change. Real incomes are rising, and retailers are experiencing broad-based sales gains. Manufacturing activity continues to grow but perhaps at a slower pace than in June. Demand is strong for aluminum but remains sluggish for steel. Retailers and manufacturers report lean inventories and caution about inventory growth. Builders, expect construction activity to slow when current contracts are completed. Mortgage lenders report declines in mortgage applications in response to higher interest rates. Banks remain highly liquid. District Labor Market Conditions Employment continues to rise in this District but unemployment rates show little change. In Ohio, manufacturing employment rose in June for the sixth consecutive month and is 3.3 percent above last December's low. Nonagricultural nonmanufacturing wage and salary employment rose in June for the fourth consecutive month and is 3.1 percent above its February low. In May and June, total employment increased by 160 thousand workers but the labor force expanded by 179 thousand, leaving Ohio's unemployment rate unchanged at 12.8 percent (nsa). Unemployment rates in the District's eleven largest SMSA's ranged from 9.3 percent to 17.3 percent. Local indexes of leading indicators for Pittsburgh and Cleveland have risen for seven consecutive months and point to continued improvement in those industrial centers. Prices, Wages and Earnings Incomes of production workers have been rising faster than prices. Hourly earnings for production workers in manufacturing in Ohio have been rising at a 6.4 percent annual rate since last October. Average weekly hours worked have also been increasing so that in the same period average weekly earnings have been advancing at a 13 percent annual rate. The Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers in Cleveland rose 9.3 percent in the last twelve months and 1.5 percent in the last two months. For Pittsburgh, the index advanced 7.1 percent and 0.l percent and for Cincinnati 7.8 percent and 1.2 percent in the same two periods. Retail Sales Fourth District retailers are experiencing broad-based sales gains. Most major general merchandisers report between 9 percent and 11 percent nominal sales improvement between the first and second quarters (a.r.). They anticipate continuing, albeit more modest advances in the third quarter. The July sales pace has moderated from June. Consistent with national trends, sales of cars, particularly large domestic models, are leading the sales strength in the District. Retail food sales are lagging, registering between 2 percent and 3 percent nominal growth from last year. Retail sales growth is occurring throughout the District, although Northern Ohio retailers appear to be lagging the region. Manufacturing Growth of District manufacturing activity may have slowed in July. A survey of purchasing managers in the Cleveland area reveals new orders and production rose in July, but at a much slower pace than in June. Similarly, the pace of price increases slowed from June. Raw materials and finished goods inventories were stable in July. A survey of purchasing managers in the Cincinnati area shows new orders, production, and backlogs continuing to rise through June. Increased proportions of firms surveyed report prices paid for commodities, services, and equipment are rising while vendor deliveries are reported to be slower. Raw material inventories are stable while finished goods inventories continue to fall. Primary Metals Demand for aluminum is strong while demand for steel remains sluggish. Aluminum orders and shipments have increased substantially since December, boosting the price of primary aluminum ingots by about 50 percent. A major producer reports its U.S. smelters are operating at the highest level since 1980. Aluminum inventories are very low relative to current shipping rates. Steel producers report new orders are slow, shipments are flat and order backlogs are falling. Product prices remain weak. At current prices steel producers would have to operate at over 70 percent of production capability to break even but they are operating at only about 50 percent to 60 percent of capability. Inventories Retailers and manufacturers report lean inventories. Retailers expect some inventory accumulation by yearend 1983 but less than typical for a recovery because of high carrying costs and skepticism about the durability of the recovery. Industrial firms generally report their inventories are at desired levels and are lean relative to sales. Plans to expand inventories as sales increase are cautious, as many firms plan permanently lean inventories. Construction Builders expect construction activity to slow when current contracts are completed. Home builders report a substantial drop in new contracts following recent increases in mortgage rates. However, construction of new homes is likely to remain strong through the Fall as builders work down their backlog of orders. Office construction remains strong as work continues on projects underway. Realtors, however, report an excess of office space, and prospective tenants are being offered substantial incentives, such as several months free rent. Suburban office space and shopping centers have been over-built in recent years and developers expect very little new construction. Prices of building materials and supplies have begun to stabilize following several months of sharp price increases, and expected shortages have not materialized. Mortgage Lending Mortgage lenders report declines in mortgage inquiries and applications last month. Lenders offering conventional 30-year fixed rate mortgages report a substantial drop in mortgage activity, and without exception attribute it to an increase in mortgage interest rates. Rate increases ranged from 50 to 100 basis points bringing conventional mortgage rates into the 13 percent to 14 percent range. Lenders offering variable rate mortgages have not experienced a substantial drop in mortgage activity, and in several cases, lenders have had an increase in the number of loan inquiries and applications. The majority of loan inquiries and applications have been from existing home owners seeking to trade up to more expensive homes. Lenders report a significant decrease in their refinancing activity. Commercial Banks Banks in the District remain highly liquid. Continuing strong core deposit growth and relatively sluggish commercial loan demand are allowing banks to reduce their reliance on large denomination CD's as a source of funds. Banks are using deposit growth to increase investments in federal funds, repurchase agreements and U.S. government and agency securities. Some funds are also being used to satisfy the somewhat higher demand for consumer loans.