Introduction All districts reported that economic conditions continued favorable in July. Atlanta, Kansas City. New York, and San Francisco noted a further "quickening" or "acceleration" in the expansion. Job markets continue to improve, but at a disappointing pace in much of the Midwest. All districts emphasized strength in retail sales, especially big ticket items. Price inflation continues moderate. Capital expenditures by business continue to lag the consumer sector. Inventories remain lean and businesses are cautious about restocking. Virtually all goods are in ample supply. Manufacturing output is rising gradually, except for most heavy capital goods. Higher mortgage rates threaten the upswing in housing, but momentum in new construction is still strong in most regions. Nonresidential construction is relatively weak because of overbuilding of office space, but several districts note signs of improvement. Hot, dry weather has seriously damaged corn, soybean and other crops. Business loan demand continues very slow, while consumer credit is relatively strong. Boston, Chicago, and Richmond expressed concern over increased foreign competition related to the high value of the dollar. Industrial Output Further increases in factory output, shipments, orders, and backlogs were widespread. Atlanta, Dallas, New York, Philadelphia, and Richmond emphasize the breadth of the recovery including building materials, textiles, apparel, chemicals, electronics and other sectors. Boston, New York, and St. Louis report further gains in defense procurement. Cleveland points to a contrast, strength in aluminum accompanied by continued sluggishness in steel. Minneapolis mentions depressed iron ore mining and Dallas the much reduced rate of oil and gas development. Employment Although job markets have strengthened in most regions unemployment remains generally high. Rehiring of laid-off workers is cautious. Despite relatively low jobless rates, Boston says employment figures show "no recovery." Chicago reports substantial worker recalls in motor vehicles, but not in capital goods. New York reports shortages of skilled workers in residential construction. Cleveland notes rising employment but no improvement in unemployment. Consumer Purchases Retail sales and other consumer outlays have been excellent. New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco report merchants to be highly enthusiastic. Large autos, compact trucks, recreational vehicles, furniture, and appliances are selling especially well. Air conditioners and summer apparel benefited from the heat wave. Consumers are using credit more freely and delinquency rates are low. Dallas notes weakness in sales near the Mexican border associated with the weak peso. Several districts commented on strong tourist business. Housing Residential construction continued high relative to a year earlier. But higher mortgage rates since May have reduced home purchases. Realtors have lowered their expectations for the year. The backlog of contracts already signed will keep many builders busy throughout year-end. Demand for adjustable rate mortgages has held up better than for fixed rate financing. Nonresidential Construction Some improvement in office building or leasing activity was reported by New York and Atlanta. San Francisco expects increased commercial construction activity in coming months despite high vacancy rates. Cleveland and Dallas reported substantial excess office and suburban shopping center space, with sizable incentives offered to secure tenants. Significantly increased highway building is expected in the second half of this year. Capital Expenditures In general, business capital expenditures are not as vigorous as consumer buying. Electronic type equipment is doing much better than mechanical equipment. Chicago reports little improvement in producer equipment from the "abysmal" levels of the recession. Richmond sees emphasis on modernization and replacement. Dallas reports a slight improvement in oil and gas well drilling, which had dropped sharply last year. San Francisco notes a recent rise in orders for commercial aircraft. Minneapolis reports computer sales "unexpectedly strong." Business Inventories Retailers and manufacturers report inventories to be lean but adequate. Inventory investment policies are described as "conservative" or "cautious" in most districts, but New York reports some rebuilding by retailers. Additional merchandise is generally available when needed, prices are expected to remain relatively stable, and carrying costs continue high. All these factors encourage business to keep inventories low relative to activity. Agriculture Several districts noted the adverse impact of hot, dry weather on growing crops. Corn, soybean, cotton, alfalfa, tobacco, and vegetable yields have been seriously affected and further damage is possible if moisture conditions do not improve. The reduction in supply caused by the drought reinforces the large acreage cuts associated with PIK and other government programs. On the bright side, Kansas City reports a record winter wheat crop harvested before the drought struck. Also, San Francisco reports improved supplies of fresh fruits and vegetables following the losses caused by wet weather earlier in the year. Financial Business loan demand at banks generally has remained sluggish. Balance sheets have strengthened as cash flow has increased, inventories have been reduced, and short-term debt has been refinanced. Consumer and mortgage borrowing have been growing, but higher mortgage rates are expected to dampen demand for real estate loans.