Economic activity in the Third District remained on a modest upward trend in November, according to reports from the region's business community. Manufacturers noted gains in shipments and orders, although they indicated employment was only steady. Retailers generally said they were posting slight gains from a year ago, and auto dealers said that sales, while off slightly in recent weeks, were still running at a healthy pace. Bankers indicated that overall lending was up slightly, due mainly to growing consumer loan volume. Residential real estate activity had picked up, according to realtors, but demand for commercial real estate was stagnant. Most business contacts in the Third District forecast a continuation of current trends. Manufacturers expect orders and sales to continue growing, and they are planning increases in capital spending. Retailers forecast year-over-year sales increases of 3 to 5 percent, in dollar terms, for the Christmas season. Bankers expect a seasonal increase in consumer borrowing, but, in general, they expect commercial and industrial lending to edge up very slightly, at best. Realtors and home builders believe the stepped-up pace of home sales will persist for at least another six months. Manufacturing Reports from Third District manufacturers in November indicated that business continued to move up. While just over half said their shipments and new orders were running at a steady pace, nearly one- quarter said they were seeing increases in orders and about one- third said they were stepping up shipments. Among major industrial sectors in the region, food processors, chemical producers, and nonelectrical machinery manufacturers reported gains; manufacturers of paper products and primary metals noted declines in business. For the manufacturing sector as a whole, employment was steady. Looking ahead, just over half of the area manufacturers contacted for this report expect continued improvement over the next six months. They forecast parallel increases in orders and shipments, and nearly half plan to boost capital spending. On balance, comments from manufacturers indicate that overall employment may edge up somewhat during the winter. Retail Most of the Third District retailers contacted in late November said sales for the month were running slightly above the year-ago pace and about in line with plans. Executives at area stores gave sales forecasts for the Christmas season ranging from 3 to 5 percent above last year's levels, in dollar terms. Several merchants said they were implementing expanded promotional efforts, such as increased advertising and extended store hours. Most retailers described inventories as under control and said they had been careful in ordering merchandise for the Christmas sales period. Auto dealers generally said sales in November had slipped a bit from October but were running at a good pace. They said new models were being well received, and they expect to close the year on a healthy sales trend. Finance Comments from Third District bankers indicate that overall loan demand was moving up only slightly in November. A majority of those contacted for this report said consumer lending was up a bit because of growth in credit card borrowing, auto loans, and home equity credit, but a significant number said consumer lending was just steady. Commercial and industrial lending was described as flat by most of the bank loan officers interviewed, while a few said they have seen recent increases in borrowing, especially by middle-market companies. Nearly all said the upward momentum of applications for residential mortgages was easing as the volume of refinancings declined, while the volume of purchase mortgages was holding steady or increasing. Bankers expect consumer borrowing to increase seasonally, but they do not anticipate much growth in commercial and industrial lending. They also expect refinancing activity to taper off. Real Estate and Construction Real estate brokers and home builders in the region said activity picked up in late October and appeared to be continuing. Realtors generally ascribed then stepped-up pace of sales to buyers' perceptions that mortgage rates have bottomed and to sellers' willingness to accept less appreciation in the price of their homes. Realtors noted increased sales in both the lower and middle price ranges. Despite the recent pickup, realtors said the inventory of homes for sale remains high. Nevertheless, they expect the higher pace of home sales to persist at least another six months. Commercial real estate activity remains flat, according to brokers and property managers. Office vacancy rates in the region have changed little from a year ago according to some brokers' surveys, and demand for retail space was still described as soft. Some pickup in demand for industrial space was noted, however. Some positive developments have been noted in regional construction activity. In addition to increased residential building, some utility and other nonresidential projects have gotten under way. Overall, however, the gain in construction activity is slight.