Summary Economic weakness persists in California. Much of the rest of the Twelfth District, however, shows signs of solid economic growth. In California, manufacturing, construction, trade, and financial sectors remain sluggish. Economic activity also lags in western Washington, reflecting retrenchment in aerospace, and in Hawaii, reflecting a weak visitor industry. Oregon and Arizona, however, are experiencing modest growth in the construction, trade, and financial sectors. Furthermore, the economies of intermountain states continue to grow at a robust pace. Business sentiment has improved since our last report, and expectations for holiday retail sales are good. Business Sentiment Sentiment among Twelfth District business leaders improved from our October report. Three-quarters of the respondents expect the real economy to expand during the next four quarters at a rate at or above trend growth. This proportion is up from two-thirds in October and one-half in August. Most other respondents expect the economy to expand, but at a rate below trend. Respondents from California and western Washington expect their regions to have slow growth relative to the nation. Retail Trade and Services Retail activity is reported improving. The weakest conditions are in California, where contacts report flat to slightly improving consumer confidence and retail sales. For example, one national retailer reports strong sales in October at its stores outside of southern California. Another national retailer, however, reports that California sales are "showing signs of life." Several contacts mention very strong retail sales in both Utah and Idaho. Automobile sales in these states are surging, and spot shortages of new domestic cars and light trucks are reported. Consumer confidence in these states is excellent, and merchants are expecting significant increases in holiday sales over a strong performance last year. Consume confidence, and expectations for the holiday season, are also reported improving in Arizona. Optimism also is reported among retailers in Oregon. Reports from the Puget Sound area are mixed. One contact reports that the recent Asia-Pacific trade conference generated significant visitor industry activity. The contact also reports high levels of activity in retail and restaurant establishments. In contrast, another contact cautions that the holiday retail season will be subdued due to expected further layoffs in aerospace. Conditions in service-raised industries are mixed. Potential health care reform is reported to be leading to consolidation among health care providers. Contacts indicate that law and accounting firms are reducing overhead through early retirement. In California, passage of a sale tax extension is expected to assist local government in the short run. A recent voter initiative in Washington is likely to limit state government spending and lead to restructuring in the next year. In contrast, fiscal conditions are good in state and local governments in Utah and Idaho. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity is mixed in the District, with lingering weakness centered in aerospace and defense-related industries. Layoffs in these sectors continue in several district states-with southern California and western Washington most affected. Sluggish conditions are also reported in California's machinery, metals, and construction-related manufacturing industries. One contact notes that the District's aluminum industry is suffering from an over- supply of ingot from foreign suppliers. Primary domestic aluminum producers are reducing capacity, and aerospace companies are benefiting from significant price reductions. Other manufacturing industries show signs of improvement. Some types of cable television distribution equipment is reported in short supply, with some larger companies having bought out the complete stocks of some suppliers. Sales by western food processors of peas, corn, beans, and pumpkins are reported very strong due to a shortfall from the Midwest. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Most contacts report a generally favorable outlook for agriculture. Weather conditions in the Midwest are reported to have raised prices for grains, corn, and beans. Abundant lettuce supplies are reported. The cotton harvest is about complete with average yields and somewhat lower prices than a year earlier. Conditions in the seafood industry are reported poor. Heavy crude oil prices in California are reported declining. Orders for wood products remain firm, with inventories very low. Construction and Real Estate District construction and real estate markets are mixed. Sluggish conditions persist in most real estate markets in southern California. Sales in the high-end residential market remain weak-and commercial vacancies are reported very high. A contact in Los Angels reports that federal aid is stimulating the construction of low income housing. In the central valley of California, a contact reports steady sales of entry-level housing-but sluggish conditions for higher-priced housing. The housing market in western Washington is reported stable, with steady sales and firm prices. In Oregon, conditions in the construction industry are improving. Contacts in Utah and Idaho report some capacity and supply constraints in residential construction, but nothing that will be disruptive. Financial Institutions Varied conditions are reported across District financial markets. A contact with a large California bank reports that the industry continues to feel the effects of recession-with business loan demand remaining weak and overall credit demand remaining lackluster. A contact in the thrift industry in southern California reports continued weak credit demand due to soft real estate conditions. In Arizona, a contact reports that consumer loan demand remains strong, and that commercial loan demand finally shows signs of reviving. A contact from the Puget Sound area reports a strong banking sector, although the level of mortgage refinancings may recede from its current high level. Healthy growth in deposits and loans are reported in Oregon.