Overview Sixth District contacts reported that the Southeast economy resumed a moderate pace of expansion after experiencing sluggish growth in the early fall. Retailers said that shoppers began so return to the stores in large numbers in late October, after a lull in sales activity. Auto dealers continued to report year-over-year gains in new car sales. The number of manufacturers reporting current production increases rose as did those expecting improvements in future activity. According to builders and realtors, the single- family housing market remains one of the strongest sectors in the regional economy, while commercial real estate activity finally has begun to show signs of slow improvement. Bank contacts reported that consumer loan demand continued to grow modestly. They noted that, for the first time in several years, commercial lending is increasing. Wage increases and prices of finished goods generally were said so be stable, but several contacts noted that they continued to see increases in the prices of lumber and other building materials. Consumer Spending After recording disappointing early fall sales, Sixth District retailers reported that cooler weather and an early start to the holiday shopping season resulted in a surge of sales beginning in late October. Although sales of durable goods such as furniture, appliances, and home electronics remained strong throughout the summer and early fall, sales of nondurables, particularly women's apparel, were weak during this same period. In late October, however, sales of nondurables picked up considerably, and this improvement was sustained through the end of November. Prior to the Thanksgiving holiday, most retailers reported that they were only cautiously optimistic about the prospects for this year's holiday sales. However, several reported that Thanksgiving weekend sales exceeded plans and increased their confidence that December sales will surpass last year's levels by a good margin. Although auto sales have slowed somewhat from their mid-summer peak, most dealers continued to see year-over-year sales gains through November. Manufacturing According to factory contacts, current manufacturing activity improved moderately in October and early November, as did the outlook for future activity. Producers of lumber and other building materials, carpet, and home furnishings have continued to benefit from demand generated by relatively strong regional and national housing markets, and, more recently, from an improvement an commercial construction. The transportation equipment sector is receiving a boost from increased production of commercial trucks, while shipbuilding has improved recently as a result of new orders for floating casinos. On a less positive note, regional apparel producers continued to pare jobs; new Defense Department cutbacks also have resulted in additional layoffs. Although most industry contacts reported that they had not hired new workers in recent weeks, the share of firms contacted that plan to begin hiring new employees within the next six months has been increasing. Construction Southeastern realtors continued to report strong single-family home sales; most agents said that they recorded year-over-year sales gains in both October and November. Trade-ups and luxury homes are reportedly selling more rapidly in recent weeks, although demand remains strongest for both starter and mid-priced homes purchased by first-time buyers. Low inventories of both new and resale homes have decreased the length of time that homes remain on the market, which in turn has stimulated new building activity in many market areas. Most builders and real estate agents expect next year's home sales to remain at least at this year's levels. However, builders in some areas noted that a shortage of developed lots and qualified sub- contractors was beginning to slow home construction. While still slow when compared to the 1980s, multifamily and commercial real estate markets have continued to show signs of steady improvement. Vacancy rates for both office and industrial space have continued to edge downward while effective rental rates have climbed. In the last few months a relatively large number of new retail, commercial, and public building projects were announced across the District, along with several new multifamily residential developments. Nevertheless, most contacts do not expect to see an increase in speculative building for at least another year. Financial Services Bankers around the region reported that loan demand was up moderately in November. Residential mortgage lending for new homes has continued at a strong pace, despite the recent uptick in long- term interest rates, while other forms of consumer lending also were reported to have increased during the last month. Improvement in commercial loan demand, which had been flat during much of this year, also was noted by several bankers. In particular, they noted an increase in loans for business expansion, as well as increased demand for loans to finance construction of new retail outlets. Wages and Prices Wages and prices of finished goods generally were reported to be stable through November. However, several contacts continued to note that prices of lumber and other building materials have risen since August.