Economic developments seemed slightly more positive in recent weeks. A majority of District retail respondents reported that October sales were on or above plan. Homebuilders noted little change in the residential construction market in recent weeks though a few saw signs of some increased buyer interest. Office vacancy rates moved lower in downtown Manhattan, and some analysts believe that, if the trend continues, this could be the first year since the mid-80s that a net absorption of commercial space occurred downtown. The latest nonfarm employment figures showed some improvement in the region, but the state unemployment rates continued to be quite volatile. Looking to the future, most of our manufacturing contacts expect sales to increase over the next six months, and virtually all reported intense price competition. Most senior loan officers at small and midsized banks indicated no change in their willingness to lend over the last quarter though a few mentioned an increased willingness. Consumer Spending A majority of District retail respondents reported that October sales were on or above plan. Some retailers, however, said that October sales were somewhat disappointing, due in part to unseasonably warm weather. In the first half of November, a pickup in activity was noted at most stores and retailers were cautiously optimistic about the holiday season ahead. Over-the-year sales results ranged widely in October, from -6.8 percent to +13 percent. Retailers reported varying experience even with comparable product lines. For example, some retailers noted strong demand for most kinds of apparel, but weakness in items for the home, while others reported opposite trends and attributed weak fall apparel sales to unusually warm weather. As compared with the relatively strong gains last year, they anticipate somewhat smaller year-to-year increases this Christmas. With one exception, all respondents stated that inventories were in good shape going into the holiday season, with some describing them as "lean". Residential Construction and Real Estate Homebuilders noted little change in the residential construction market in recent weeks though a few saw signs of some increased buyer interest. Respondents were still fairly evenly divided between those anticipating higher and lower housing starts this year compared with last. Low mortgage rates, steady home prices and a reduced inventory of resales were cited as factors behind increased activity where it exists, but uncertainty about jobs and impending layoffs continue to contribute to buyer reluctance in many areas. One respondent noted that many builders were supplementing their income with remodeling work while another said that subcontractors were becoming hard to find in his area. Office vacancy rates moved lower in downtown Manhattan, and some analysts noted that if the trend continues, this could be the first year since the mid-80s that net absorption of commercial space occurred in the downtown area. Vacancy rates rose somewhat in mid- Manhattan, however, as several firms added small amounts of excess office space to the supply. Other Business Activity The latest nonfarm employment figures showed some improvement in the region. New York's September-to-October gain was the largest since 1987, while New Jersey posted its largest manufacturing job increase in over ten years during September. However, unemployment rates continued to be volatile, with New York's October rate rising to 7.9 percent from 7.1 percent in September and New Jersey's falling to 6.5 percent from 7.7 percent in September. With regard to the outlook, recent developments concerning employment have been mixed. On the positive side, ground was recently broken in Newark for the $150 million New Jersey Performing Arts Center, scheduled to open in 1996, which is expected to create some 625 construction jobs and 470 permanent positions. On central Long Island, the Fairchild Corporation plans to demolish its abandoned 80-acre aircraft plant and erect a shopping mail with three major retailers and scores of specialty shops. Upstate, Crouse-Hinds announced that it will stay in the Syracuse area, retaining some 1200 jobs, and GM will add nearly 600 jobs at its engine plant in Tonawanda. KeyCorp's merger with Society Corp. could also result in 300 jobs being moved to Albany from outside the District. On the other hand, Delta plans to close its New York reservations office, affecting 400 positions, and Werner-Lambert intends to cut more than 1400 additional jobs in the U.S. In addition, Dun and Bradstreet announced that it will cut several thousand jobs worldwide over the next two years. Most of our manufacturing contacts expect sales to increase over the next six months, with several projecting gains of 5 percent or more. Most firms report intense price competition, and anticipate flat-to- lower prices. Those planning price increases generally acknowledge that they are not sure they can make the prices stick. The majority of the firms expect capital spending in the next six months to equal or exceed spending in the first half of 1993, and most expect wage gains to be moderate and less than in 1993. Financial Developments Most senior loan officers surveyed at small and midsized banks in the Second District indicated that they were as willing to lend as they were two months ago, and a few mentioned an increased willingness to lend. The pattern of overall loan demand was mixed. The demand for commercial and industrial loans remained weak, with only a few officers noting improvement. In contrast, residential mortgage demand continued to be strong, largely due to the fast pace of refinancing activity. The demand for consumer loans exhibited considerable strength, which several officers attributed to lower rates and increased marketing efforts. In addition, almost all respondents reported either stable or lower delinquency rates during the preceding two months.