Overview Most sectors continued to improve in recent weeks. Retail sales were up and manufacturing activity strengthened further. Tourism, loan demand, and real estate activity improved. At District ports, imports were lower. In agriculture, harvesting was ahead of schedule, but dry conditions threatened pastures. Consumer Spending Our regular mail survey indicated that retail activity improved in October. Survey respondents reported that shopper traffic and sales increased. Inventories and sales of big-ticket items, however, were unchanged. Wages, wholesale prices, and retail prices rose, while employment declined. Retailers were optimistic about their prospects for the next six months. They expected most indicators to increase but inventories and big-ticket sales to be unchanged. Manufacturing Our regular mail survey of manufacturers indicated that District factory activity strengthened again in October. Manufacturers reported increases in shipments, new orders, and order backlogs. They indicated that the number of employees was unchanged but that the average workweek increased. Most respondents reported that finished goods prices increased no faster than the general rate of inflation, but that the prices they paid for inputs rose somewhat faster. Most manufacturers expected shipments and exports to continue to increase over the next six months. Generally, respondents looked for manufacturing prices to increase no faster than inflation. Tourism Hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity for October and the first three weeks of November increased somewhat when compared to September and a year ago. Respondents attributed the increase to unseasonably good weather and stronger-than-normal convention bookings. Looking ahead, respondents noted that bookings for the winter season were running ahead of last year's pace. Most expected tourist activity to continue to improve during the next six months. Ports Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that the volume of exports was unchanged while imports were generally lower in September than in August. However, compared to a year ago, imports were unchanged while exports were lower. Over the next six months, District ports expected export and import activity to be evenly matched. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that credit conditions strengthened slightly during the last six weeks. Respondents stated that commercial loan demand was moderately higher and that consumer loan demand was unchanged. Commercial loan rates were up slightly while consumer rates were steady. Residential mortgage demand was unchanged during the last six weeks. Both refinancing activity and mortgage originations were steady. Residential mortgage lending rates moved moderately higher. Residential Real Estate Realtors and homebuilders contacted by telephone reported that residential real estate activity remained strong throughout most of the District during the past four weeks. Most respondents indicated moderate to strong growth in home sales and housing starts. Home prices apparently rose somewhat during the period. Strong demand and higher lumber costs apparently were behind the increase. In addition, several homebuilders in the Carolinas reported that wages were rising for framing carpenters. Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate leasing activity was slightly stronger during late October/early November: it continued to improve in the Carolinas and Virginia, remained steady in the District of Columbia and Maryland, and was mixed in West Virginia. Analysts reported a decline in office building vacancy rates in all states except Maryland and a continued decrease in the supply of large blocks of office space. Little new construction was reported. Respondents noted that rental rates had apparently bottomed out in some areas and had increased marginally in others. State Tax Revenues State tax revenues in most jurisdictions grew 2 to 3-1/2 percent in recent weeks, after adjusting for inflation. Maryland revenue growth was higher than in previous months. In West Virginia and South Carolina, revenue growth was slightly below that of last month. District of Columbia revenues continued to decline in real terms. Agriculture Warm, dry weather allowed fall harvesting and planting activity to progress ahead of schedule. The harvesting of most crops was complete or near completion. Fall planting of small grains also was ahead of normal. The dry weather hurt pastures and, combined with a poor hay crop, increased farmers' uncertainty about the adequacy of winter livestock feed stocks.