Summary Seventh District economic expansion gathered increased momentum in recent months. Retail sales growth seemed to strengthen in October and November, and sales results for the Thanksgiving weekend generally met or exceeded retailers expectations. Manufacturing activity strengthened further, as auto output climbed back toward previously scheduled levels and as production gains spread to a wider range of industries. The pickup in business activity has bolstered labor markets in the region, after the employment recovery faltered earlier in 1993. A survey indicated that loan standards and terms at the largest District banks remained on a modest easing trend, although only a bare majority reported increased demand for commercial and industrial loans. Our latest survey of agricultural bankers indicated that land values generally remained stable this summer, although banks in flooded areas expressed some concern about farm earnings and loan repayment rates. Reports of price increases became somewhat more prominent in recent months, but many of them seemed concentrated in basic materials responding to market-specific developments. Retail Sales Survey data and reports from individual firms indicate that retail sales growth strengthened in the District in October and November. A nationwide survey indicated that Midwest retailers expect modestly stronger holiday season sales gains than the national average. A survey of retailers in Michigan indicated that expectations for holiday season sales were running in line with those held at the same time last year, which were appreciably higher than expectations in 1988 through 1991. A survey of retailers in the Chicago metropolitan area showed an improving trend in same-store sales growth in recent months. A large retail chain reported that sales continued to strengthen "along a steady uptrend" through October, and sales gains then gathered greater momentum in the first two weeks of November, with further relative strength in sales of furniture and appliances. A large distributor of appliances reported that retail demand softened modestly in early November, but only from record levels, and demand strengthened anew in the latter half of November. One of the largest auto dealers in the District stated that inventory shortages constrained sales gains during the third quarter, but margins improved as underlying consumer demand remained relatively strong. The shortages eased in October and November, however, and sales picked up further from already-active levels. Surveys and reports from retailers indicated that retail sales and traffic generally met or exceeded expectations over the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, despite difficult weather around much of the District. For example, a large department store chain stated that "we were very pleased" with sales over the weekend, with sales exceeding projections. A check authorization firm reported a 5 percent year-over-year increase in day-after-Thanksgiving sales in the Chicago area. Manufacturing Seventh District industrial output strengthened in recent months, particularly as auto production climbed back toward scheduled levels. Purchasing managers' surveys in Chicago, Milwaukee, Detroit, and Western Michigan generally indicated an improving pace of activity. Auto industry suppliers provided the initial boost to the improvement seen in these surveys late in the third quarter, but the most recent reports showed production gains spreading to a wider variety of manufacturers. A steel industry analyst reported that integrated mills are still completely booked for the fourth quarter, and bookings are extended further into 1994 than is normal for this time of the year. A manufacturer of corrugated paper containers reported that its overall orders growth strengthened in recent months, particularly from firms in appliance, auto, and printing- related industries. A large manufacturer of consumer durable goods reported that dealer orders posted significant year-over-year gains in November. A manufacturer of gypsum wallboard stated that two large plants were brought back on-line in the industry in October to meet strong demand. A large diversified manufacturer reported continuing weakness in several important overseas markets. Employment The recent pickup in overall business activity has bolstered employment gains in the District, following a loss of momentum earlier in 1993. A survey by a large personnel services company found significant improvement in hiring plans among Midwest businesses during the fourth quarter, with renewed relative strength indicated for the region, driven in part by responses from manufacturers of durable goods. The employment components of District purchasing managers' surveys generally drifted higher in recent months. Temporary help firms specializing in clerical personnel reported a higher pace of permanent hiring by client firms in recent months. A contingency-based executive search firm stated that permanent placements were improving in the fourth quarter. A firm engaged in residential reconstruction in high-end markets, where a recovery had lagged economic recovery as a whole, stated that "We're swamped. We're also hiring, something we haven't done for a year and a half." Banking A recent survey of loan officers in the District indicated that standards for approving applications for commercial and industrial loans generally continued to ease among large District banks, while a modest majority of surveyed banks reported improvement in commercial and industrial loan demand. Most respondents indicated that standards for commercial real estate loans remained restrictive, although some banks did report selectively easing their standards for approving applications for construction and land development loans. One middle-market lender stated that much of the increase in commercial and industrial bank lending activity has resulted from a fight for market share, with little new net lending growth in the aggregate. Another bank stated that loan demand from large commercial accounts remained relatively weak in recent months, citing continued competition from alternative financing channels and a slower-than-normal cyclical recovery in requirements for inventory financing. Agriculture The fall harvest is nearly complete. Crops in many areas were confronted with sizable drying charges and price discounts for low quality. Yields were down in general, but varied widely across the District. State average corn and soybean yields in Iowa, the state hardest-hit by the flood, dropped to levels comparable to those in the drought-disaster of 1988. At the other extreme, soybean yields in Illinois and Indiana reached new highs. Our latest survey of agricultural bankers found that District farmland values were stable this summer, in general, and up about 3 percent from a year ago. The bankers' views on credit conditions varied widely, however, with most of the difference seemingly tied to the extent of crop damage from the summer floods. Bankers in the harder-hit states of Iowa and Wisconsin are concerned about farm earnings and loan repayment rates, while bankers elsewhere in the District generally expect earnings and loan repayment rates to match or exceed year-earlier levels. Prices Reports of price increases became somewhat more prominent in recent months, but they were often restricted to basic material prices reacting to market-specific developments. A steel industry analyst stated that scrap prices have appreciated over 35 percent this year, partly because of hedging prior to a strike deadline, but mainly as a result of stronger underlying demand. A manufacturer of paper containers expected an industry-wide price hike to hold firm in coming months, after flat-to-modestly-declining prices accompanied sporadic and unsuccessful attempts at price increases over the past three years. A manufacturer of gypsum wallboard reported that another price increase was announced in its industry. This contact also noted that paper used to cover wallboard was in short supply. District retailing contacts generally reported that competitive pressures continue to constrain price increases. One large retailer noted that "customers are shopping with a purpose," during the holiday season, with a greater share of traffic using lists and comparison shopping. A large distributor of paint sold for commercial construction purposes reported that competition continued to drive down prices in its markets, despite improvement in demand.