The Eleventh District economy expanded at a moderate pace over the past six   weeks. Energy-related activity remained strong. Reports from manufacturers were   mixed but mostly positive, although some construction-related producers were   less optimistic than they were six weeks ago. Nonfinancial services activity   rose, with strong demand for staffing services. The single-family housing sector   remained weak, but the commercial real estate sector continued to improve.   Financial services respondents said overall loan demand was flat during the   reporting period, and contacts in the agricultural sector noted drought   conditions worsened.
The price of crude oil fell from over $100 per barrel in early June to about   $95 at the end of the reporting period in early July. Gasoline prices fell about   15 cents during the reporting period. Natural gas prices remained in the $4-$5   per Mcf range, but edged up since the last report because of hot weather. Prices   for most petrochemical products fell since the last report, according to   contacts.
Respondents in high-tech manufacturing reported that growth in orders   remained at a moderate pace since the last Beige Book. One respondent with   greater-exposure-than-average to Japanese production said second-quarter sales   were well below pre-earthquake expectations, but that growth in June was strong   enough to finish the quarter slightly above their expectations. Inventories were   at desired levels, although one respondent said that a one-time reduction in   orders from a customer left them with slightly higher-than-desired levels. Most   contacts expect orders and sales growth to remain moderate or to pick up   slightly in the second half of the year.
Reports from paper manufacturers were mixed. Demand for corrugated packaging   improved, but paper suppliers noted flat to slightly slower sales. Manufacturers   of non-defense transportation equipment reported strong sales with demand flat   to slightly up since the last report and well above year-ago levels. Food   producers said sales continued to rise at a steady pace.
Petrochemical producers said demand remained strong for most products.   Contacts said domestic demand has improved, and export markets have re-opened   since the last report. Refinery utilization moved up to near 90 percent, and   contacts in the refining industry said margins narrowed slightly but remained   very strong, although demand for oil products is slightly lower than the same   time last year.
Intermodal cargo volumes increased since the last report, but year-over-year   volumes are down due to a sharp decline in Asian demand for raw materials.   Contacts in railroad transportation noted a broad-based increase in shipments,   with particularly strong volume growth in metallic and nonmetallic ores and   grains. Container volumes declined during the reporting period, although   contacts said demand has strengthened from a year ago, due to energy-related   activity. Small parcel shipments rebounded in June after declining in May.   Still, outlooks are more pessimistic than previously reported, partly due to   high fuel costs dampening consumer spending. Airlines report some softening in   demand in June compared with May, likely due to an increase in airfares for   last-minute travel. However, passenger volumes are up on a year-over-year basis,   and the outlook for the summer is positive.
Apartment demand remains strong and rents continue to increase. Contacts   noted the Dallas/Fort Worth area topped the national rankings in leasing   activity in the second quarter.
Office and industrial real estate activity   improved since the last report. Contacts say Texas markets are performing better   than the national average overall. One respondent noted office demand was quite   strong in Texas' major metros and that rents were starting to rise. Investment   property sales continued to improve from low levels, and prices rose slightly.
