Business activity in the Fourth District continued to expand at a modest   pace, albeit at a slower rate since our last report. Manufacturers reported a   slight rise in production and new orders, while freight transport volume   continued to grow. Retail sales increased, but were below plan for some chains.   New car sales weakened slightly. Energy companies noted little change in output.   New-home construction is sluggish, whereas nonresidential building showed   continued improvement. The demand for business and consumer credit remains   low.
Rising payrolls were mainly limited to the manufacturing and energy sectors.   Staffing-firm representatives noted moderate growth in the number of new job   openings, with vacancies concentrated in manufacturing and professional business   services. Wage pressures are largely contained. We heard fewer reports about   rising prices for commodities and other raw materials. In particular, steel   firms noted a leveling off in prices for their products, while food producers   reported a slow decline in some agricultural commodity prices.
Manufacturers remain committed to raising capital outlays in the upcoming   months relative to year-ago levels. The number of contacts who earlier reported   delaying the start of projects due to slowing in the recovery has declined   considerably. Capacity utilization rates remain below what is considered normal   for a majority of manufacturers. Reports on raw material pricing were mixed, and   only a few of our contacts said that they had passed through price increases.   Steel prices leveled off, while food producers reported a slow decline in some   agricultural commodity prices. In general, manufacturers continued hiring at a   modest pace. Wage pressures are contained.
Activity in nonresidential construction strengthened somewhat during the past   couple of months, with a few of our contacts noting a significant improvement   when compared to year-ago levels. Inquiries are on the rise, and several   contractors reported growing backlogs, albeit with weak margins. Construction is   taking place in a broad range of industry sectors. Almost all of our contacts   expect that activity will continue to slowly improve as the year progresses.   Financing is available, though underwriting standards remain high. Banks are   unwilling to lend for speculative projects, and they require additional equity   when refinancing an existing property. Most of our contacts reported normal   price fluctuations for building materials. Aggressive pricing on the part of   both general contractors and subcontractors was widespread. Construction   payrolls held steady, and little permanent hiring is expected in the upcoming   months.
Most auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sales from mid-May through late   June were below those recorded during the previous six-week period. On a   year-over-year basis, vehicle purchases increased for almost all of our   contacts. Demand for smaller, fuel-efficient cars continues to grow. However,   with some retrenchment in gasoline prices, consumers are beginning to take a   second look at SUVs and trucks. Inventories were characterized as low by many   dealers, and they believe this may be a major contributor to slower sales.   Dealers are cautious in their outlook due to uncertainty about gas prices, the   economy, and the availability of vehicles that consumers want to buy. Demand for   used cars remains fairly strong; however, scarce inventory is contributing to   rising prices. Credit pricing remains very competitive, and the use of leasing   as a credit alternative is growing. Many dealers are in the process of   initiating factory-mandated programs for showroom upgrades and reimaging. Little   change in dealer payrolls was reported.
