The pace of activity in the Second District's economy slowed somewhat since   the last report. Business contacts across a variety of sectors indicate that   activity has flattened out in recent weeks and that hiring has tapered off.   Retail sales remained fairly sturdy in June but were mixed in early July.   Consumer confidence has remained at low levels. Tourism activity has remained   strong. Commercial real estate markets have been mixed since the last report,   with office markets mostly stable but industrial markets weakening somewhat. The   residential purchase market has been steady to somewhat softer, while the rental   market has shown further signs of strengthening; there continues to be little   new home construction. Finally, bankers report increased demand for commercial   and industrial loans, lower delinquency rates on such loans, and no change in   credit standards in any category.
Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales were mixed in June.   Rochester-area dealers note some deceleration in sales, mainly attributed to low   inventories or stock-outs due to ongoing Japan-related disruptions. On the other   hand, Buffalo-area dealers indicate some pickup in sales in June, after a   sluggish May, as inventory problems begin to subside. Used cars are said to be   selling well. Auto-industry contacts note improvement in both retail and   wholesale credit conditions.
Consumer confidence surveys continue to give mixed results. Siena College   reports that consumer confidence among NY State residents slipped in June,   following a good gain in May, with declines occurring both upstate and   downstate. In contrast, the Conference Board reports that consumer confidence   among residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) rose in June,   following a steep drop in May. Still, both surveys show confidence mired at low   levels. Tourism activity in New York City has remained quite strong since the   last report, as reflected in persistently high hotel occupancy rates, room rates   that run 6 to 8 percent ahead of a year earlier, and a pickup in Broadway   theatre attendance and revenues.
In contrast with the weakness in home purchase markets, rental markets have   shown increasing strength. Manhattan's apartment rental market has strengthened   since the last report. Rents on new leases were reported to be up 6 percent in   June from a year earlier in June. In addition, one contact notes that landlords   have pulled back on concessions, which are now reportedly being offered on fewer   than 5 percent of new leases, down from 60 percent in mid-2010. Separately, the   Jersey shore summer rental market is reported to be fairly strong this year,   though the sales market for rental units remains sluggish. More broadly, many   New Jersey landlords are reported to be pushing through rent increases for the   first time since the recession.
Commercial real estate markets have been steady to somewhat weaker since the   last report. Office vacancy rates and rents were generally stable across the   District during the second quarter: market conditions improved slightly in the   Buffalo and Rochester metro areas and in Manhattan, but they weakened moderately   in northern New Jersey and metropolitan Albany. However, industrial real estate   markets weakened modestly across most of the District, with vacancy rates edging   up and rents drifting down.
Looking at overall business activity, manufacturing firms in the District   report a pause in growth in June and early July, based on the latest Empire   State Manufacturing Survey. Manufacturers also report that price pressures have   eased since the last report and that their selling prices are steady; however,   both prices paid and prices received are expected to increase in the months   ahead. Non-manufacturing firms also indicate that business activity has   flattened out since the last report, and contacts have become somewhat less   optimistic about the near term outlook. Non-manufacturing firms report that cost   pressures remain widespread and more contacts than last time report that they   are raising selling prices.
