Business activity in the Fifth District was unchanged or slightly improved in   most sectors since our last assessment. In the service sector, retail activity   on balance remained soft during the last month, while non-retail services firms   reported flat or slightly increasing demand. Tourism to mountain and ocean   destinations picked up in recent months. Banking activity improved moderately,   but gains did not extend to commercial real estate. Indeed, both commercial   Realtors and construction contractors reported that activity was little changed   from weak conditions in past months. In contrast, however, residential Realtors   indicated that low-to-medium priced homes across the District were generally   lifting the market, if only slightly, since our last report. The manufacturing   sector slowed over the last month, with several contacts citing softer demand.   Finally, employment agencies specializing in temporary workers noted modest   improvements in demand, with several adding that recent uncertainty about the   direction of sales was causing their clients to postpone hiring full-time   employees.
Fifth District ports continued to post moderate gains since our last report.   With shipping moving into its peak season, however, several port authorities   expressed concern that recent import gains were not as strong as expected. One   official attributed the apparent sluggishness in May and June to retailers   ordering earlier than normal last year (due to uncertainty over shipping rates),   making year-over-year comparisons misleading. Another contact stated that the   surge in trade that occurred over the last year was not sustainable, and also   added that the weakening of the overall economy was affecting import volumes. A   shipping official noted that many businesses were reluctant to build inventory   and some retailers seemed to be holding back their orders, adding to a sense of   "choppiness" to shipping activity. However, exports of coal and other   commodities continued to do well, according to a port official, and auto imports   were described by one contact as "amazing," with automakers scrambling to   rebuild depleted inventory. Several contacts expected shipping activity to pick   up later this year, in part due to an increase in empty containers being shipped   to Asia--presumably to be refilled for the Christmas holiday season.
Commercial Realtors and construction contractors reported little change from   the generally weak conditions that prevailed in our last assessment, but a few   encouraging signs were noted. A recent survey of contractors in the District   revealed that one third of respondents experienced no change in construction   activity over the last three months, while forty percent reported declining   activity (compared to over fifty percent three months ago). Gains often came   from government, medical, and higher education projects, which have been pockets   of strength. However, several contractors reported a recent decline in higher   education-related construction. On the Realtor side, most contacts continued to   cite weakness in demand from small businesses for both office and industrial   space. However, several Realtors noted a pickup in leasing to small retailers,   especially independent restaurants. A Realtor in Virginia reported limited gains   among car dealerships and nursing homes, with most of that business coming from   long-standing clients. A Realtor in Raleigh reported some increase in the number   of clients who expressed interest in taking out a lease in the near future.   Finally, most contacts around the District indicated that rental rates were   generally stable, and several Realtors reported a decrease in the number of   requests for rent reductions.
