Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and   based on information collected on or before July 15, 2011. This document   summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts outside the   Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve   officials.
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic   activity continued to grow; however, the pace has moderated in many Districts.   The six Districts nearest the Atlantic seaboard reported a slowdown in activity   since the previous Beige Book report; activity was little changed in the Atlanta   District and unchanged or slightly improved in the Richmond District. Of the   other six Districts, the Minneapolis District reported political and   weather-related disruptions that temporarily slowed growth, and the Dallas   District slowed to a moderate pace of growth. The remaining four Districts   continued to grow modestly. The previous Beige Book reported a slower growth   rate for four Districts, seven Districts growing at a steady pace, and one   District with faster growth.
Consumer spending increased overall, with modest growth of nonauto retail   sales in a majority of Districts. Falling gasoline prices throughout most of   this reporting period may have encouraged a pickup in shopping trips and some   additional spending since the previous Beige Book. Price pressures from food,   energy, cotton, and other supplier inputs continued to squeeze retail margins.   Auto sales slowed a little since the previous Beige Book, with inventories still   lean due to Japanese supply chain disruptions. The summer tourism season has   started off stronger than last year in most areas unaffected by severe   weather.
Activity among nonfinancial service sectors improved overall in most   Districts. Of the five Districts reporting on transportation services, volumes   were mostly up. Manufacturing activity expanded overall, with two Districts   growing at a somewhat faster rate since the last Beige Book, many Districts   reporting steady or slowing growth, and two Districts reporting little change.   Among firms reporting on near-term expectations, the manufacturing outlook   remained generally optimistic, but capital spending plans were somewhat more   cautious.
Most residential real estate activity was little changed and remained weak,   although construction and activity in the residential rental market continued to   improve since the previous Beige Book. For six Districts, activity in the   nonresidential real estate market has improved slightly for specific submarkets,   although conditions generally remained weak across all twelve Districts. Since   the last Beige Book, overall loan volumes have increased in three Districts,   decreased in two Districts, and were relatively flat, often with mixed trends   across the banks' portfolios, in five Districts. Credit quality was steady or   improving.
Drought conditions and severe flooding adversely affected large portions of   the seven Districts that reported on their agricultural sectors. Districts that   reported on their energy and mining sectors continued to note strong growth for   most energy-related products but some weakness in coal production.
Although most Federal Reserve Districts observed modest hiring increases,   labor market conditions remained soft. Wage pressures continued to be subdued   for all but a few specific occupations in some Districts. Price pressures   moderated somewhat in many Districts, although some firms indicated that they   were able to pass on some cost increases to their customers.
Reports of auto sales were mixed across Districts and varied by vehicle make,   with most Districts indicating that dealer inventories were lean primarily due   to lingering supply disruptions for Japanese vehicles and parts. Auto dealers in   the Kansas City District cited strong sales despite reduced incentives and   credited, in part, continued low interest rates and tornado damage. The Chicago   District noted lower sales in June as incentives decreased and showroom traffic   declined, followed by improved sales in early July. The New York, Philadelphia,   Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts noted varying   degrees of lower sales stemming from Japanese supply constraints. Strong demand   for smaller vehicles and used cars continued in several Districts. The Cleveland   District described dealers' outlook as cautious due to uncertainty about gas   prices, the economy, and vehicle availability.
Tourism activity strengthened in most Districts as the summer season got   underway. The Richmond District reported that bookings along the Mid-Atlantic   coast were comparable to the 2010 season, despite last year's increase from   additional vacationers who were avoiding the Gulf Coast oil spill. The New York,   Atlanta, and San Francisco Districts also reported increased tourism. Tourism   was also up in parts of the Kansas and Minneapolis Districts, except for   destinations adversely affected by drought, heavy rains, flooding, and   Minnesota's state government shutdown.
Growth continued among manufacturers in the Boston and Dallas Districts as   well; however, results were more mixed. Contacts in the Boston District cited   stronger growth for products related to foreign demand, non-luxury consumer   goods, and clients addressing deferred maintenance needs. Softer growth was   reported by firms delivering consumer luxury goods, and products or services to   the small business, banking, and government sectors.
Manufacturing firms in the Philadelphia, Richmond, and Atlanta Districts   reported somewhat slower rates of growth overall. However, the Philadelphia   District reported a lull early in the period, followed by resumption of a slow   rate of growth in early July, while the Richmond District reported moderate   gains, which stalled in early July. Manufacturing firms in the New York District   reported a pause in growth throughout the period.
Manufacturing firms' expectations of future activity were optimistic in the   Boston and Philadelphia Districts, although Boston's firms were less positive   than in the previous Beige Book, and Philadelphia's firms were more positive.   Firms in the Boston District indicated limited plans for capital spending, while   firms in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas Districts maintained   plans for capital spending at prior levels. Fewer firms in the Cleveland   District were reporting delays to project starts for their capital spending   plans.
Nonresidential real estate activity improved somewhat in the Boston,   Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas Districts. The Chicago   District reported strong demand for industrial facilities, particularly from the   automotive sector. The Philadelphia District reported improvements in terms of   lower vacancy rates for office space, industrial space, and apartments; the   Chicago District reported generally lower vacancy rates. The New York, Richmond,   Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts all reported   generally weak activity in nonresidential real estate. Construction in the   Minneapolis District stalled in areas because of flooding and unavailability of   state building inspectors due to the Minnesota state government shutdown. Health   care and apartment construction was a bright spot for the Atlanta District.   Activity was weak in the Kansas City District, but firms that supply   construction materials reported increased sales and stable prices. San Francisco   reported stable but high vacancy rates in many parts of the District.
Credit conditions have changed little since the previous Beige Book. Banks in   the New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas Districts reported that   credit quality was flat or somewhat improved. Bankers in the Richmond, Atlanta,   Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts noted that competition among   lenders for high-quality borrowers was squeezing banks' margins and lowering the   cost of capital for those borrowers. Bank contacts in the New York, Atlanta,   Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts indicated that credit   standards were mostly unchanged at tight levels, but the Cleveland District   heard a few reports of easing standards for good borrowers.
Activity in the energy sector remained strong. Shale exploration increased in   the Atlanta and Cleveland Districts. The Cleveland District also reported little   change in the production of oil, natural gas, or coal, despite rising demand for   coal. The St. Louis District reported higher coal production than the prior   year. The Minneapolis District reported continued strong mining activity and   mixed plans for wind farms and biodiesel. The Kansas City District reported   expanded drilling activity and higher ethanol production but weak coal   production. The Dallas District also reported strong drilling activity, and the   San Francisco District reported strong activity for metal mining, along with oil   and gas extraction.
Wage pressures remained subdued in most Districts and for most occupations.   For the overall labor market, the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Kansas   City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts reported limited wage pressures. Wage   pressures or wage increases were characterized as modest or moderate by the   Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts. Boston District   contacts reported wage growth between 3 percent and 5 percent in consulting and   advertising. In addition, contacts in the Kansas City District reported labor   shortages and wage pressures in the retail sector and for many occupations in   the high-tech, energy, and transportation sectors, while the San Francisco   District reported continued wage pressures for specialized information   technology workers.
Price pressures seemed to have moderated somewhat, although some firms   reported being able to pass on some rising costs. Overall, input price pressures   appeared to have fallen modestly. Input price increases remained elevated in the   Philadelphia, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts. Meanwhile, the   Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, and San Francisco Districts reported moderation in   input price pressures relative to the previous Beige Book. For the most part,   firms' ability to pass on price increases remained mixed. A few Districts   reported some sectors being able to pass on rising prices, such as the retail   sector in the Chicago District and service-sector firms in the Dallas   District.

