The Ninth District economy grew modestly, but activity was disrupted by   widespread flooding and a temporary Minnesota state government shutdown that   started on July 1. Increased activity was noted in consumer spending,   residential construction, commercial and residential real estate, services,   manufacturing, energy and mining. Mixed activity was noted in tourism and   agriculture, while commercial construction was steady. Private sector hiring   grew modestly, and wage increases continued to be moderate. Overall price   increases were moderate, although pressure remains on a number of input   prices.
Summer tourism activity was mixed. In western South Dakota, wet weather   dampened the start to the season, but summer reservations for RV camping were up   about 2 percent. A travel agency in Minnesota noted that both corporate and   leisure business were up from a year ago. However, Minnesota state parks were   closed during the government shutdown. Flooding in North Dakota has slowed   tourism activity, including cancelation of this summer's state fair in   Minot.
Commercial real estate markets increased slightly since the last report.   Minnesota commercial real estate industry representatives expect higher rents   and lower vacancy rates, according to a May survey by the University of St.   Thomas. Retail real estate industry analysts expect a slight increase in   absorption, but decreases in rent over the summer in the Minneapolis-St. Paul   area. Residential real estate markets grew. Home sales during June in   Minneapolis-St. Paul and Billings, Mont., were up from last year's   post-tax-credit lull in sales. June pending sales of homes in the Sioux Falls   area increased from June 2010, but new listings and the median sales price   decreased.
Wage increases were moderate. Recent settlements with labor unions generally   included modest wage increases over the next two to three years. According to   respondents to a recent St. Cloud (Minn.) Area Business Outlook Survey, 34   percent expect to increase employee compensation at their companies over the   next six months, up from last year's survey, when 24 percent expected   increases.
Overall price increases were moderate, although pressure remains on a number   of input prices. Mid-July Minnesota gasoline prices were about the same as early   June, but were $1 per gallon higher than a year ago. Meanwhile, prices for   copper, lead, nickel and zinc increased. A Minnesota-based food producer   reported that food ingredients are expected to rise at least 10 percent over the   next year.
