Since the last Beige Book, Third District economic activity has continued to   grow at a very slow rate. Overall, manufacturing growth has leveled off at a low   rate since the last Beige Book. Retailers posted strong year-over-year sales   increases in June. For motor vehicle dealers, the slowdown in sales that began   in May eased slightly further in June. On balance, bank lending has been mostly   flat since the last Beige Book. Steady and falling house prices continue to   dampen sales of existing and new homes, according to residential real estate and   construction contacts. Commercial real estate contacts reported small   improvements in market conditions since the previous Beige Book. Slight   increases in activity were reported by service-sector firms, dampened somewhat   by a hiring slump among customers. Price pressures from food, energy, and other   commodities continue to affect many sectors. The ability to pass along costs   remains mixed, and there is little evidence of wage pressure.
Third District business contacts continue to expect slow growth despite   expressing increased uncertainty. Manufacturers forecast a modest rise in   shipments and orders during the next six months. Retailers remain cautiously   optimistic about future sales; auto dealers are more agnostic. Bankers expect   slight growth in lending, at best. Residential real estate contacts are   generally planning for a continuation of slow growth, comparable to last year.   Contacts in commercial real estate continue to expect modest gains.   Service-sector companies also expect continued slow growth.
Despite the uncertainties, Third District manufacturers have grown somewhat   more positive in their outlook for business conditions over the next six months   compared to the time of the previous Beige Book. Among firms contacted, over   two-fifths expect increases in new orders and shipments, while about one-fifth   expect decreases. One-third of firms polled project increases in capital   spending over a six-month planning horizon--the same proportion as at the last   Beige Book.
Third District auto dealers generally reported that sales eased further in   June after May's slowdown. Results varied by brand, depending on reliance on   Japanese production for the vehicle or parts. One dealer of General Motors   brands indicated June was the dealership's best month of the year. Dealers   remain uncertain about future sales.
Commercial and industrial real estate contacts have noted small improvements   in the Third District since the previous Beige Book. Overall, vacancy rates have   improved for office space, industrial space, and apartments, although one   manager said activity seems to have come to a standstill in the last month.   Retail space vacancies may have edged up slightly; however, demand is stronger   in regional centers and weaker at neighborhood sites. An ongoing trend of   trading up for quality as office space leases renew has lowered vacancies and   reduced concessions for Class A space, while raising vacancies for Class B   space. Rents are generally steady for most sectors in most areas and concessions   remain common.

