Sixth District business contacts described economic activity as   little-changed in June through mid-July. Retail sales grew slowly, although   sales of higher-end goods saw more traction and tourism activity was strong.   Existing home sales remained soft outside of Florida, while new home sales and   construction were weak throughout the region. Downward pressure on prices of   both existing and new homes continued to be noted. Contractors reported that the   pace of commercial development was basically unchanged, although construction   activity in healthcare and multi-family had improved. Manufacturing contacts   indicated that production and new orders increased but at a slower pace than   experienced earlier in the year. Credit availability for entrepreneurs and real   estate developers remained tight, although loan availability for some commercial   projects increased. Most business contacts indicated that their hiring plans   remained modest. Firms' expectations for unit cost increases have softened,   mainly because non-labor input costs have moderated. Some energy contacts have   noticed a considerable uptick in early stage fabrication of oil and gas   extraction capital goods. While most of the District continued to experience   drought conditions, recent rains have provided relief to some of the District's   stressed farmlands.
Leisure activity continued to accelerate in most areas. Contacts reported   increases in room occupancy and rates in many areas. Strong attendance at theme   parks, festivals, and coastal destinations was noted. Cruise bookings have risen   as well, and airport contacts observed increases in passenger traffic. The   overall outlook for tourism remained positive.
District builders reported that new home sales and construction weakened   somewhat in June compared with year-ago levels. Builders continued to report   downward pressure on new home prices. Residential contractors reported that home   improvement construction increased from earlier in the year; however, most   reported that they were unable to effectively pass along all cost increases.   Most builders anticipate that new home sales and construction will be slightly   ahead of last year's weak levels over the next several months, and most expect   renovation work will continue to improve.
About two-thirds of contractors reported that the pace of commercial   development was flat to slightly up compared with weak levels from a year   earlier, but backlogs continued to shrink. Contractors commented that healthcare   and apartment construction were bright spots and that renovations in commercial   and apartment space had increased. Most contractors anticipate activity for the   remainder of this year will be flat to below year-ago levels. With regard to   existing commercial structures, contacts reported that credit availability and   absorption improved, especially in light industrial, warehousing, healthcare and   energy-related space.
Freight forwarding and parcel shipping contacts reported a gradual slowing of   domestic volume momentum in June through mid-July. The cost of fuel and other   inputs continued to challenge shippers' operating margins; however, maritime   contacts cited some success in passing along fuel surcharges. Input costs for   trucking contacts--such as tires, replacement parts, and new vehicles--remained   high.
Firms' expectations for unit cost increases are more tempered than noted   earlier in the year. Non-labor input costs have moderated, but remained   elevated. However, downward price pressures from productivity gains were   reportedly tapering off. While District contacts have continued to report that   margins remained squeezed, there have been more frequent reports that some   contacts are attempting to pass through input costs.
While most of the District continued to experience drought conditions, recent   rains have provided relief to some of the District's stressed pastures and   crops. Based on results of a recent state survey, a contact reports concerns   that farm labor shortages has had a negative impact on Georgia's fruit and   vegetable production.

