Summary Manufacturing activity in the Seventh District is showing signs of an auto-related slowdown, while other sectors of the District's economy continue to make slight improvements. Retailers report a high volume of sales in December, particularly in the final week. Auto sales improved nationally throughout December and into early January, as renewed promotional activity finally began to influence buyer decisions. Steel producers cited a stretching out of orders from the auto industry, but most other markets remain firm. Several reports from equipment producers cite a slowdown in shipments, with growth expected to remain positive. Although unseasonably cold weather slowed construction activity in December, backlogs remain relatively strong in the District. A consensus outlook of 24 business economists shows steady improvement in the economy this year, after a weak fourth quarter last year. Consumer Spending General merchandise sales in the District grew slightly faster than the national average during December, according to several reports. Sales among discount chains were hampered by heavy discounting at conventional department stores during the last few weeks of the Christmas shopping season. However, sales at discount chains rebounded sharply in the week after Christmas. Sales volume at one discount chain was reported to be better than expected, up slightly from 1988's growth pace. Sales growth was concentrated in urban areas of the District. Earlier concerns of excess inventories going into 1990 have been eased by strong sales last month, but inventories are high in some areas, notably apparel and household goods. Better-than-expected sales overall in early January, along with order reductions in problem areas, are expected to be sufficient to ease inventory problems early in the first quarter, according to one industry contact. Motor Vehicles Total auto sales nationally hit a 10 million unit annual rate in the last ten days of December, according to an industry economist, as sales promotions finally began to boost dealership traffic. Early reports for the first ten days of January suggest a continuation of sales at near a 10 million unit pace. If this sales pace continues through January, one industry economist expects that production cutbacks already announced should be sufficient to eliminate the industry's inventory overhang. The effects of worker layoffs in January will have a sizable impact on District employment, with over half of an expected 115,000 layoffs concentrated in the District. In addition, a Michigan utility reports that during December electrical power consumption by industrial customers, led by auto producers, dropped sharply. Steel The steel industry shipped 20 million tons of steel in the fourth quarter of last year, according to an industry economist, pushing shipments for the year about 1 percent above 1988. However, shipments were sliding throughout the fourth quarter, reflecting primarily a slowing of shipments to the auto industry. Orders for the first quarter of this year indicate a reversal of this pattern, with shipments starting weak and gradually improving. According to one respondent, the auto industry has not cut orders, but has spread existing orders over January and February. Demand for steel from other markets, including machinery, construction, and steel service centers, is reported to be doing well. Equipment Producers of business equipment generally reported continued slowing in activity, with some segments showing signs of bottoming out last month. A producer of heavy equipment reports that sales of construction equipment continue to weaken and sales of mining equipment have started to slow, with the notable exception of coal mining equipment. Strength in exports is helping to offset a slowing in domestic demand for some types of heavy equipment. A producer of communications equipment reports that orders at the end of 1989 indicate a turnaround from the steadily slowing growth of shipments occurring in first quarter of 1990. Recovery to trend growth rates is expected to take most of this year, reaching trend growth by early 1991. A maker of electrical controls and supplies sold to other producers of industrial equipment, however, reports steady growth in sales to its industrial markets and expects demand for its products to continue to be strong in 1990. Construction Several reports indicate that on average construction activity in the District continues to be stronger than the nation. While demand for concrete in the Chicago area slumped in December due to unseasonably cold weather, backlogs were up substantially from year ago levels, according to one supplier. Gypsum board shipments to District states have been rising at twice the national pace, although Michigan continues to lag other District states. A supplier to the residential construction market reports that contract awards in the year-to-date through November of last year increased 5 percent in the District states, compared to a 3 percent decline nationally. Consensus Outlook A group of 24 business economists from the Midwest met at the Bank in mid-December to discuss the economic outlook for 1990. After an expected flat fourth quarter in 1989, their median forecast shows real GNP rising 1.7 percent in 1990, on a year-over-year basis. Their industrial production forecast shows a 1.2 percent decline for the fourth quarter of 1989 and only 1.1 percent growth in 1990. However, both forecasted series show marked improvement over the course of the year, led by consumer spending. In line with the consensus outlook, the December survey of Chicago purchasing agents showed expanding activity. Finally, the median forecast for the GNP implicit price deflator indicated an easing in inflationary pressures, dropping from 4.2 percent in 1989 to 3.9 percent in 1990.