Overview The Tenth District economy continues to grow modestly. Christmas sales were near expected levels at most retailers, but continued sluggishness of auto sales has resulted in an unwanted buildup of dealer inventories. With most manufacturing plants operating below capacity, inputs are generally available with shorter lead times and at only slightly higher prices. Housing starts have declined and mortgage loan demand remains weak at district thrift institutions. Continued improvement in resource industries is a bright spot for the district. Oil and gas drilling activity is increasing, and agriculture's strong financial performance is encouraging expanded farm lending activity at commercial banks. Retail Sales District retailers report steady to higher sales over a year earlier, but sales have been mixed over the last three months. Demand is especially strong for women's apparel, while housewares and furniture sales are somewhat weak. Christmas sales nearly met expectations and exceeded year-ago levels for most retailers. Prices are expected to stabilize in the near future, and inventory levels appear satisfactory. Automobile dealers report sluggish sales of new vehicles during the last month. Dealers are trying to trim large inventories in anticipation of slower sales over the coming months. Manufacturing Purchasing agents report input prices unchanged from or slightly higher than a year ago. Prices have increased on only a few items over the last three months, and no price changes are expected over the next three months. Inputs are generally available with shorter lead times. Many firms are planning to trim inventories in the months ahead. Most plants are operating below full capacity, with few reports of skilled labor shortages. Energy Exploration and development for oil and gas in the district continues to improve even though the recent increase in oil prices is not expected to persist. The average number of active drilling rigs in the district increased from 326 in November to 336 in December. Six consecutive months of increase have boosted drilling activity 25 percent above the level a year ago. Housing Activity and Finance District housing starts have decreased slightly from a year ago and from last month. Homebuilders expect starts and sales this year to be about the same as last year. New home sales and prices have generally been steady, while inventories of unsold homes are down slightly. Builders expect no problems obtaining materials. District savings and loan institutions report flat or negative net deposit flows over the last month. In almost all cases, net deposit flows were more favorable than a year ago. Most respondents expect no net change or a slight increase in deposits in the near term. District thrift institutions report weak mortgage demand and steady to slightly lower mortgage rates. Expectations for future mortgage rates are mixed. Banking Most district commercial banks report unchanged loan demand over the last month although some banks note a slight increase in demand. Increased demand is most apparent for commercial and industrial loans and consumer loans. Demand for other types of loans is generally unchanged. Among responding banks, loan-to-deposit ratios are about the same as a month ago but somewhat lower than a year ago. Deposit behavior varies considerably among responding banks, with slightly more banks reporting increases in deposits than reporting decreases. Demand deposits and NOW accounts show the greatest strength. Agriculture Bitterly cold December temperatures and continued dry weather have heightened concerns over the condition of the winter wheat crop across much of the Tenth District. Dry growing conditions during the fall and early winter limited root development of the wheat crop in several states and left the crop vulnerable to damage by cold temperatures and wind erosion. In Wyoming, however, wheat fields are protected by a deep snow cover. Although much of the district's wheat crop is under stress, most of the crop should develop satisfactorily if normal weather conditions return. Despite severely cold temperatures in late December, most district cattle feeders marketed cattle on a normal schedule. Faster weight gains during unseasonably warm temperatures early in December helped compensate for the slower weight gains caused by colder temperatures later in the month. High cattle prices have boosted feeding margins and encouraged some district producers to feed cattle to heavier weights than usual. Strong returns from both livestock and crops allowed most district farmers to pay off 1989 operating loans at a rate similar to that of a year ago. In parts of Oklahoma and Kansas, however, continued drought and an early frost cut crop yields and boosted carry-over farm debt. Nevertheless, most district banks have little unwanted carry-over debt and are actively seeking new farm loan accounts to increase loan-deposit ratios. In general, agriculture's strong financial performance in recent years has encouraged district bankers to expand farm lending activity.