Summary Business conditions in the Seventh District continue sluggish, with no sign of significant improvement in the months ahead. Forecasts have been revised down. While analysts and executives are cautious and uneasy, few anticipate a general decline. Total payroll employment has increased modestly in the five-state area in recent months, but manufacturing employment has declined. Indiana and Michigan, aided by the recovery in motor vehicle output, have paced the District, while Iowa and Illinois, more associated with the depressed agricultural sector, have enjoyed very little improvement. Demand for most capital goods produced in the District has shown only partial recovery, and in some cases none at all. Heavy trucks and trailers, which were strong early this year, have weakened in recent months. Steel output has declined since last spring, contrary to earlier expectations. Construction activity has been helped by lower interest rates. Retail sales of general merchandise have been below forecast, and credit delinquencies have increased. However, retail inventories, generally, have been brought into line. There are no problems in procurement, and order leadtimes have shortened on many items. Prices in wholesale markets have been soft, especially steel, nonferrous metals, and paperboard. Layoffs A number of large District firms are in the midst of painful staff reduction programs to reduce financial deficits. Deep cuts sometimes involve veterans with 30 or more years service. Included are railroads, airlines, steel, capital goods, electronics, utilities, financial institutions, and conglomerates. Staff reductions take the form of attrition, retirement incentives, and outright discharge. Mergers and acquisitions, a large factor among firms headquartered in the District, typically result in elimination of employees deemed redundant. Motor Vehicles Total auto deliveries have remained at a high level, but slipped in June and early July, at least partly because of the expiration or reduction of incentive programs for domestics. Imports have increased as Japanese cars have become more available. Some popular domestic models are in short supply, a situation that should be eased by strong third quarter production schedules. The largest auto manufacturers were pleased by the plan to amend the CAFE requirement penalizing production of full-size cars. Sales of light trucks have remained vigorous. However, orders for heavy trucks fell well below production in the first half, and backlogs are lowest in 2 years. Second half output is expected to be 25 percent lower than in the first half. Steel With orders disappointing, raw steel output has declined, and overall operations have remained below break-even levels. Producers continue strenuous cost-cutting efforts. Industry analysts view the effectiveness of the Administration's import restraint program as doubtful. Auto industry needs are the main support of steel order books. Light construction steel also is in good demand. Steel for heavy construction and capital goods remains soft. Capital Goods Demand is down from last year for various lines of equipment, including oil and gas development, food processing, and materials handling. Construction equipment remains very depressed. Farm equipment sales have been below last year's miserable level. Rail equipment orders are still in driblets. Two computer and semiconductor manufacturers headquartered in the Seventh District are reducing staff in response to the weakening in that industry, but most production is outside the District. Construction, Nonresidential Nonresidential building in the District showed a small advance in the first half of 1985, after two years of vigorous growth. Nevertheless, activity remains well short of good levels of the late 1970s. Michigan, which was most depressed, has had the sharpest gain over the past 3 years. Commercial construction has been strongest in the District, new office and retail buildings and substantial rehabilitation work. Additional large office buildings are planned to be started in downtown Chicago and strategic suburban centers, despite a "substantially overbuilt" market. Proposed tax changes would reduce incentives for developers. Concessions on leases are large and widespread. New space is constantly coming on the market as new buildings are completed. Construction, Residential Residential building in District states, except Michigan, has been somewhat below a year ago. Construction has improved in all states from 1984's second half. Activity, overall, is only about half the level of 7-8 years ago. New work is severely depressed in communities dependent on agriculture or hard hit manufacturing firms. Mortgage interest rates, recently at the lowest levels since the late 1970s, continue to support sales of new and used homes. Highway Work Highway construction is a source of strength in the District. Most of the new federal highway money is being used for small, urgent projects, usually involving asphalt resurfacing. Government authorities are said to be reluctant to start big projects because the flow of federal funds could halt again this fall. Consumer Spending Major general merchandise retailers found sales to be disappointing in May, June, and early July. Moreover, credit delinquencies have been rising. However, inventories have been reduced from somewhat excessive levels several months ago, through tight restraints on ordering. An industry analyst notes the possibility of shortages in the pre-Christmas buying season. Home appliance shipments were at record levels in the second quarter. (Appliance manufacturing is important in the District.) Most lines were strong, but the leader has been microwave ovens, the majority of which are imported. Agricultural Distress District farmers continue under pressure from weaker crop prices and declining farmland values. Our survey of District agricultural banks shows that farmland values at mid-year were down nearly 5 percent from March, down 20 percent from a year ago, and down 40 percent from the peak in 1981. Most bankers expect further declines. Prospective crop yields in Iowa and some other areas of the District have been reduced somewhat because of dry weather in recent weeks. Overall harvest prospects, however, remain favorable. Corn and soybean prices, already down about 20 percent from year-earlier levels, are drifting lower, reflecting expectations that this year's harvest will substantially exceed requirements. Farm loan portfolios continue to deteriorate. In our mid-year survey, agricultural bankers reported "major or severe" repayment problems with about 17 percent of their farm loans, up from 12 percent a year ago.