Summary District indicators suggest a mixed economic outlook for the region, which represents some improvement from the last report. Employment growth and construction activity have both lagged national trends while retail sales have improved recently and are expected to remain strong, particularly in the automobile sector. Consumer lending has continued vigorously while commercial lending has maintained a weak pace. Prices of District agricultural commodities are expected to remain weak. Employment and Business Activity District payroll employment has increased at a 2.1 percent annual rate through the first five months of 1985, compared with a 3.3 percent rate nationally. Employment growth has been particularly strong in Kentucky (6.1 percent), but decreased at a .5 percent rate in Arkansas. Kentucky's employment strength was attributed to job gains in the construction, service, and trade sectors by an official from the state's Office of Economic Security. Indices of general business activity show Kentucky growing at a 3.9 percent annual rate in 1985, while the Arkansas index has fallen at a 0.7 percent rate; the indices for Missouri and Tennessee rose at 1.8 and 2.4 percent rates, respectively. Consumer spending Reports from the District indicate generally strong levels of retail sales in June after more mixed results in earlier months. The Memphis area reported a 2 percent increase in sales from May to June after declines in consumer spending earlier in the year. A local respondent projects continued sales strength in the Memphis area through the 3rd quarter due to the currently low interest rates. Automobile dealer associations in the District report first-half 1985 sales to be up 5 to 10 percent over first-half 1984 levels. Most dealers feel the sales strength will continue through the second half of 1985, although one large St. Louis domestic car dealer believes second half sales will fall from current levels. The strong sales are reported to be evenly distributed among car and truck sales; foreign car dealers are posting 10 to 20 percent sales increases over last year's levels. Construction Total construction contracts in the District through the first half of 1985 were down 1 percent from the first half of 1984. Total construction contracts in the U.S., however, were up slightly by 0.1 percent over the same period. District nonresidential construction in the first half of 1985 grew by 12 percent from last year while residential construction fell by 9 percent. Reports from Memphis suggest that nonresidential construction will be 30 percent higher this year. Respondents from the city's banking and insurance communities feel there may be overbuilding, especially in hotels, apartments and commercial space. The St. Louis area, on the other hand, reports nonresidential construction to be down by 13 percent from year-ago levels. Banking and Finance The lending experience among Eighth District banks has closely paralleled the national trends of strong consumer loan growth and declining overall loan demand, especially among commercial lending. Total loans at large District banks grew at a 13.6 percent rate in the first half of this year, compared with a much faster rate of 28.3 percent over the first half of last year. This slowdown is largely the result of the 5.9 percent growth rate in commercial and industrial loans. Consumer loans, however, continue to exhibit strength, posting a 27.9 percent growth rate in the first half of this year, compared with a 16.5 percent rate in the first half of 1984. Agriculture Cash prices for most crops are at least 20 percent lower than a year ago and the best option for many producers appears to be the placement of their harvests under CCC loan. Expected large domestic crops and continued weak export demand are responsible for the ongoing decline in prices. Cotton is particularly affected by weak export demand with USDA projections for 1984-86 showing a two million bale decline in exports and a four million bale increase in stocks. Red meat prices also should continue to decline over the next several months as both cattle and hog supplies increase; deteriorating pasture conditions and poor calf prices are encouraging cow slaughter while larger slaughter of heavier hogs has increased pork supplies by 2-3 percent.