Overview Business and economic conditions in the Fifth District continue to reflect somewhat disparate performance across sectors. On balance, activity seems flat to rising slightly. Some of the areas of earlier strength continue to lend support, while others, notably the retail sector, have softened markedly. Construction activity and house sales remain upbeat. Manufacturing is flat to down slightly, although there is some indication that the slide in manufacturing employment has been arrested. Coal production remains below year earlier, although stocks have been drawn down significantly since year-end. The service sector remains the primary source of employment growth. The outlook fur agriculture has improved somewhat of late because of much improved weather conditions. Manufacturing There is little evidence of any significant turnaround in the manufacturing sector despite a modestly improved employment situation. According to our reports, manufacturing shipments stabilized over the past month, although new orders and order backlogs both declined. Month to month changes continue to be dominated by such sectors as textiles, apparel, and furniture where imports continue to gain market share. Some of this weakness has been offset recently by very modest gains in primary and fabricated metals, food products, and segments of the chemicals industry. Coal production continues to run slightly below year ago levels, but recent employment losses appear to have been stemmed in this industry as well. Nonetheless, mining employment remains well below the levels of a year ago. There is generally widespread feeling that output of coal will be on the rise shortly. Consumption, particularly by electric utilities, is running strong, and stocks on hand are down sharply from only a few moths ago. Consumer Activity After providing major support to the District economy for quite some time, the consumer has retrenched significantly in recent weeks. The slowing of sales appears to cut across most product lines, and is by most accounts widespread geographically as well. It has been noted also that many of the aggressive promotions of late 1984 and early 1985 have come to an end. Retailers have responded to the weakness in sales by cutting orders, despite already lean inventory positions. The reported weakness in sales of goods has not spread to tourist related services, however. Most reports are that tourist areas are doing quite well, so well, in fact, that they are exhibiting more general economic strength, such as in commercial and residential construction. Housing and Construction Both residential and commercial construction retain much of the strength they have shown for more than a year now. Gains in housing starts and sales have slowed in some areas, but there is no indication that levels have fallen. Activity remains quite strong by historical standards. Commercial activity also continues apace in most metropolitan areas, as well as in several large tourism centers. Outside these areas there are several areas showing substantial strength in industrial building. There is little indication that activity in any of these sectors is likely to slow any time soon. Financial Sector District financial institutions are reporting a mixed situation with respect to loans. Commercial and industrial lending is growing somewhat, but consumer lending reflects the weakness reported in the retail sector. Residential mortgage activity remains buoyant in most areas. Financial institutions do not appear to anticipate any difficulty in supporting continued loan expansion. The Outlook On balance, the outlook among District businesses has deteriorated in recent weeks. Surprisingly, however, retailers have become slightly more optimistic regarding the near term outlook for sales. Otherwise, there is very little optimism in evidence around the District. There is some feeling, nonetheless, that recent movements in interest rates, the dollar exchange rate, and overall business inventories bode well for future economic activity. To date, however, that feeling has not been incorporated into the outlook of District businesses and consumers.