The Eleventh District economy expanded at a modest pace over the past six weeks.   Reports on manufacturing and transportation services activity were mixed. Demand   for staffing services declined, while that for other business services held   steady or increased slightly. Retailers' reports on demand were mixed, while   automobiles sales were flat. Residential sales and construction increased, and   energy activity remained steady at high levels. Financial firms reported mixed   demand. Agricultural conditions remained mostly dry. Most respondents said   prices held steady, and employment levels were steady to up. Many firms'   outlooks remain uncertain, given regulatory and fiscal concerns and short-term   disruptions caused by Hurricane Sandy.
The price of WTI was volatile during the reporting period but ended up in the   mid-$80 per barrel range. Natural gas prices, while still depressed, rose to   $3.40 per thousand cubic feet over the same period. On-highway diesel and   gasoline prices trended down over the reporting period, and prices of   petrochemical products were mostly flat.
High-tech manufacturers said that shipments and new orders declined since the   last report. Demand for industrial and computing products was particularly weak,   and contacts noted weakness in personal computer sales was negatively impacting   sales of other related hardware such as printers. One respondent noted that   while orders have declined recently, cancellations have not increased,   suggesting that declines in orders may be due to thinning of inventories not due   to slowing of final demand. Continued high uncertainty about economic prospects   was restraining capital investment, and respondents expected sustained weakness   over the next six months.
Demand for paper products was flat to up, and most contacts were slightly   more optimistic in their outlook. Food producers reported stable demand over the   past month, and noted that sales were higher than a year ago. Overall,   transportation equipment manufacturers said demand was flat to down over the   past six weeks. Demand for aviation equipment held steady. Outlooks were   cautiously optimistic, and contacts expect demand to pick up in the second half   of 2013. A producer of recreational vehicles noted a slight lull in sales, and   an emergency vehicle manufacturer reported stable demand.
Petrochemicals producers noted Gulf Coast chemical production was up   slightly, but uncertainty cautioned firms' outlooks. Gulf Coast refiners said   they were operating at rates above 90 percent, and strong export demand was   keeping inventories from building.
Overall automobile sales were flat, while new vehicle sales declined slightly   since the last report. One contact noted that obtaining credit approval has not   been an issue and customers wanting to buy cars can get financing. Prices are   stable, but margins are thin. Outlooks remain positive for the fourth quarter,   but contacts expect the cost of doing business to increase next year.
Overall, accounting firms noted steady demand for their services. Demand for   insurance and audit services was robust, while that for tax services was flat to   slightly down. Real estate related activity remained weak. Outlooks were more   positive than earlier in the year, with contacts expecting an increase in tax   and transactional related services in the near-term. Legal firms reported a   modest pickup in activity, with continued strength in intellectual property   litigation, energy and real estate-related services. Outlooks for next year were   upbeat among legal industry contacts.
Reports from transportation service firms were mixed. Intermodal cargo   volumes declined, while container volumes increased over the reporting period.   Railroads said cargo volumes declined slightly over the past four weeks, with   declines in shipments of coal, metals, primary forest materials, and metallic   ores outpacing increases in shipments of grain, chemicals, lumber and wood, and   motor vehicles. Airlines noted that demand was flat to down since the last   report. Demand for domestic travel declined, while that for international travel   was strong. Airline contacts were cautious and uncertain in their outlooks.
Contacts in the commercial real estate industry said that demand for office   and industrial space continued to increase since the last report. Contacts said   that some businesses were holding back on expansions due to uncertainty, but   overall outlooks remained positive. Investment activity remains less aggressive   than earlier in the year, although some contacts noted that investment in   apartment development remains quite strong.
