Aggregate business activity in the Third District continued to grow   modestly--comparable to the previous Beige Book--until the end of October. After   pummeling the Mid-Atlantic coast, Hurricane Sandy made landfall in southern New   Jersey as a tropical storm on October 29, moving quickly inland and over the   Greater Philadelphia area. While the storm took a path through the heart of the   Third District, the most severe impacts were felt along the central New Jersey   shoreline and beyond our region in northern New Jersey, New York City, and Long   Island where the wind and storm surges were greatest. Overall, the storm left   over a hundred people dead, 8.5 million customers without power across 21   states, thousands of homes damaged or destroyed, and tens of billions of dollars   of damage and economic disruption. Third District residents and businesses bore   a substantial share of the damage; the Third District economy lost a couple of   days' output.
Most individual sectors, abetted by Hurricane Sandy, declined a little   further or slowed their pace slightly. Manufacturing activity declined a bit.   Retail sales slowed to a slight pace of growth, while auto sales slowed to a   modest pace. Lending volumes at Third District banks have continued to grow   slightly, and credit quality has continued to improve. Signed contracts for new   home construction have slowed, while brokers report strong percentage growth in   sales of existing homes. Commercial real estate contacts reported slightly more   leasing activity and some initial interest for new office construction, as well   as robust construction for industrial space. Service-sector firms reported   generally slower growth with significant challenges facing tourism. Price   pressures have changed little.
The overall outlook appears less optimistic relative to the views expressed   in the last Beige Book. Recovery from Hurricane Sandy and a renewed focus on the   looming fiscal cliff contribute to greater uncertainty than before. Expectations   over the next six months among manufacturers declined for overall activity as   well as for capital spending and hiring. Auto dealers, contractors, real estate   firms, and financial service contacts remain optimistic, as their ongoing   positive trends are supported further by recovery spending. Holiday sales   expectations remain strong but have diminished slightly among general retailers.   Service-sector contacts express a mix of outlooks with a substantial cloud   hanging over the Jersey Shore's tourism industry.
Expectations among Third District manufacturers that business conditions will   improve during the next six months softened in October then held steady through   mid-November despite the election and the storm. Firms in several sectors   anticipate additional demand over the next three to six months from   storm-related rebuilding activity. However, firms also reported lower   expectations of future hiring increases and slight declines in future capital   spending.
Auto dealers reported that October sales had been somewhat "flat" in New   Jersey at 5.7 percent year-over-year growth and slowed a little in Pennsylvania   prior to the storm. Sales fell off on the weekend prior to the storm and for the   following two weeks. A significant sales bump is expected in November, as   insurance companies begin to cut claims checks for an estimated 30,000 cars   damaged in New Jersey. The stronger sales may extend over several months. In   addition, an estimated 15,000 new cars awaiting delivery to dealerships were   reported to be irreparably damaged by storm surge at the Port Newark--Elizabeth   Marine Terminal in northern New Jersey. This loss will further tighten   inventories at new car dealers throughout the eastern seaboard.
Nonresidential real estate contacts reported that prospect activity was up   slightly; large blocks of Class A office space in Philadelphia's central   business district were becoming scarce; and growing companies have begun to talk   about new buildings. Construction activity for industrial space continued apace   with over 7 million square feet of active construction from Chambersburg, PA, to   Easton, PA, and from Pittston, PA, to Middletown, DE. Storm impacts were   generally described as minimal away from the shore; however, some contractors   noted that extensive repair work has already begun on some critical facilities   requiring significant amounts of well-paid union jobs on weekend and overtime   schedules. Nonresidential real estate contacts retain a positive outlook for   slow, steady growth.
Most District staffing firms reported an ongoing slowdown in activity,   although a few business lines associated with warehousing and distribution in   advance of the pending holiday season were the strongest in over a decade.   Staffing firms tended to suffer disproportionately greater revenue losses as   their contract workers were unable to log hours when the storm impacts shuttered   their offices. With the possibility of sequestration looming, many firms   reported taking this time as an opportunity to restructure for efficiency (with   potential layoffs), as many defense-related firms have already done or are in   the process of doing. While attention has been focused on Hurricane Sandy and   the fiscal cliff, some firms reported strong gains from the enormous advertising   dollars during this election year, while others reported losses from the NHL   lockout. Overall, the steady, modest growth of other service-sector firms has   slowed slightly in recent weeks, and the positive outlook for continued growth   six months out has grown a little more uncertain.
