The economy of the Eighth District has continued to expand at a moderate pace   since our previous survey. Retail and auto sales in October and early November   increased over year-earlier levels. Recent reports of planned activity from   manufacturing firms have been positive. In contrast, reports from services   contacts have been negative on net. Residential real estate market conditions   have continued to improve, while commercial and industrial real estate   conditions have remained mixed. Reports of lending activity at a sample of large   District banks indicated little change during the third quarter of 2012. Prices   wages, and employment levels have remained generally stable.
Car dealers in the District reported that sales in October and early November   were up, on average, compared with last year. Fifty percent of the car dealers   surveyed saw increases in sales, while 21 percent saw decreases and 29 percent   saw no changes. Twenty-four percent of the car dealers noted that new car sales   had increased relative to used car sales, while 6 percent reported the opposite.   The sales outlook through the end of the year was mostly optimistic: 64 percent   of the car dealers expect sales to increase over 2011 levels, while 14 percent   expect sales to decrease and 22 percent expect sales to be similar to last   year's levels.
Reports of planned activity in the District’s service sector have been   negative on net since our previous report. Firms in business support,   telecommunications, casinos, legal, and crisis management services announced   plans to increase employment or expand operations. In contrast, a greater number   of service firms, including firms in air transportation, sports, information,   health insurance, health care, and financial services, announced plans to lay   off workers or reduce operations.
Commercial and industrial real estate conditions were mixed throughout most   of the District. A contact in Louisville reported that office and industrial   space leasing in the third quarter of 2012 was less robust than in the previous   quarter. A contact in northeast Arkansas reported strong commercial real estate   activity in the Jonesboro-Paragould area but soft activity in other areas in the   region. Commercial and industrial construction activity continued to improve   throughout most of the District. Contacts in Little Rock noted a couple of   commercial construction projects in the downtown area. A contact in south   central Kentucky noted that commercial construction remains strong. A contact in   Memphis noted new speculative construction in the suburban market. Contacts in   Memphis also reported several commercial construction projects in Jonesboro and   large industrial construction projects in Shelby County.
