Economic activity in the Second District has weakened since the last report,   largely reflecting widespread disruptions from Sandy. Prices of finished goods   and services have generally been stable. The labor market is difficult to gauge   at this point--while hiring activity tapered off noticeably due to the storm,   relatively few business contacts indicate that they plan to reduce headcounts in   the months ahead. Retailers report fairly strong sales for October but indicate   that business in the last two weeks has been severely hampered by storm   disruptions; auto dealers in upstate New York report some softening in auto   sales in October. Tourism activity in New York City was fairly strong prior to   the storm; hotel business tapered off only modestly in early November, as the   adverse effects of travel cancellations were partly offset by increased demand   from local residents without power or access to their homes. Residential real   estate markets were generally firm through the latter part of October, though   the storm has caused a substantial slowing in sales activity in and around New   York City. Finally, bankers report some weakening in loan demand and increased   delinquency rates in the consumer and commercial & industrial loan segments;   for residential and commercial mortgages, both loan demand and delinquency rates   are little changed.
Tourism activity in New York City was mixed in October but dropped off   noticeably following the late-October storm. Hotels across much of lower   Manhattan lost business in late October and early November, when they were   without power for a number of days. Overall revenue for Manhattan hotels slumped   nearly 10 percent below 2011 levels during the week of the storm but bounced   back in the subsequent week. The New York City marathon, although cancelled at   the last minute, likely brought large numbers of visitors to the city during the   first weekend in November. Attendance and revenues at Broadway theaters, which   had already weakened modestly in October, fell sharply during the week of the   storm; attendance rebounded modestly in the second week of November but remained   roughly 15 percent below last year's level. Finally, consumer confidence in the   region climbed to its highest level in well over a year in October (prior to the   storm), based on both the Conference Board's survey of residents of the Middle   Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) and Siena College's survey of New York State   residents.
The storm caused a noticeable slowdown in sales activity throughout the New   York City metropolitan region, but this is expected to be temporary. With many   homes along the New York City, Long Island and New Jersey shorelines severely   damaged or destroyed, the lean housing inventory is a concern, as displaced   residents seek short-term rentals. There is some concern as to how much of the   shore communities will be rebuilt and how quickly, but one industry expert   anticipates that residents in the severely-damaged areas will be strongly   motivated to return and rebuild. Some of the biggest potential challenges are   likely to be shortages of construction equipment and materials, and steeper   prices for insurance.
Commercial real estate markets were mixed prior to the storm. A number of   large office buildings in lower Manhattan remain out of commission due to   extensive flooding; however, a major brokerage contact indicates that displaced   businesses do not seem to have had much trouble finding temporary quarters.   Overall market conditions are not reported to have changed much, thus far, since   the storm--between the end of September and mid-November, asking rents have   risen modestly in Manhattan but declined modestly in northern New Jersey. Office   markets across upstate New York, which was not directly affected by the storm,   have shown some signs of softening in recent weeks.
Business contacts throughout the southern part of the District--in both   manufacturing and other sectors--report widespread effects of the storm,   particularly in northern New Jersey and on Long Island. In these parts of the   District, many businesses indicate that the impact has been both severe and   protracted, due to prolonged power and communications outages, as well as   transportation disruptions that have prevented both workers and customers from   accessing the business. A trucking industry expert notes that many terminals and   warehouses sustained severe flooding, which has disrupted business; at least one   firm has gone out of business as a result. Business contacts in both   manufacturing and other sectors report steady input price pressures and little   change in selling prices.
Labor market conditions have weakened, probably temporarily, in the aftermath   of Sandy. A major New York City employment agency specializing in office jobs   reports a sharp drop-off in business after the storm, because many firms either   shut down or operated without key personnel. Separately, a growing number of   manufacturing contacts--not only in the New York City area but also in upstate   New York--report declines in employment at their firms. However, businesses in   other sectors report little or no change in employment. Contacts in both   manufacturing and other sectors expect headcounts to remain steady, on net, over   the next six months.
When asked what effects Sandy had on their business, almost half of the   bankers report no noticeable effect so far; however, many of these respondents   expect that effects of the storm could become evident in the future, especially   for commercial businesses and as damage to collateral is assessed. On the other   hand, more than 40 percent of those surveyed were affected directly by the   storm, with widespread branch closings and power outages reported. Banks in the   most severely affected areas--largely New Jersey, as well as lower Manhattan and   Queens--have received a high volume of calls from customers with home damage,   and banks are physically inspecting buildings for damage before making new   loans.
