Economic activity in the Twelfth District expanded at a modest pace during the   reporting period of October through mid-November. Price inflation for final   goods and services was subdued overall, and upward wage pressures were quite   limited. Sales of retail items and most business and consumer services rose   further on net, and contacts noted expectations for sales growth during the   holiday retail season. District manufacturing activity was uneven but appeared   to expand on balance. Agricultural output and sales increased, and extraction   activity rose for providers of energy resources. Housing demand continued to   firm, and conditions were largely stable for commercial real estate. Contacts   from financial institutions reported that overall loan demand was largely   unchanged, while credit quality improved.
Upward wage pressures were modest overall. In most sectors, limited hiring   activity and extensive worker availability held down recent and planned   increases in wages and overall compensation, with reported numerical increases   of 2 to 3 percent in general. Only a few cases of significant upward wage   pressures were noted, including for truck drivers, health-care workers, and   entry-level employees in a few geographic areas where unemployment rates have   declined substantially.
Demand for business and consumer services expanded on net. Sales continued to   grow for various technology services, as consumer demand remained high and   businesses in many sectors focused their limited capital spending on information   technology equipment and software. Demand for health-care services stayed   somewhat weak, due to an ongoing decline in the use of discretionary medical   services; however, health-care providers continued to invest in new information   technology products to enhance efficiency and respond to emerging legislative   requirements. Sales expanded further for restaurants. Activity in the travel   sector was robust, with strong growth for visitor counts and spending in Hawaii   and continued sales growth and profitability reported for U.S. airlines in   recent months.
