Economic activity expanded at a measured pace in recent weeks,   according to reports from contacts in the twelve Federal Reserve Districts.   Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco   grew at a modest pace, while St. Louis and Minneapolis indicated a somewhat   stronger increase in activity. In contrast, Boston reported a slower rate of   growth. Weaker conditions in New York were attributed to widespread disruptions   at the end of October and into November caused by Hurricane Sandy. Philadelphia   reported general weakness that was exacerbated by the hurricane. However, in the   Boston and Richmond Districts, the storm's effects were mostly limited. Contacts   in a number of Districts expressed concern and uncertainty about the federal   budget, especially the fiscal cliff.
Among key sectors, consumer spending grew at a moderate pace in most   Districts, while manufacturing weakened, on balance. Seven of the twelve   Districts reported either slowing or outright contraction in manufacturing, and   two others gave mixed reports. In some cases, such as high-tech equipment and   steel production, an industry slowed in one District while strengthening in   another. Several Districts reported slight gains in residential and commercial   real estate. Travel and tourism varied by District; for example, Minneapolis   contacts marked levels of activity above a year ago, and tourism fell in the   Kansas City District. Non-financial services also differed among Districts, with   Philadelphia businesses indicating softer demand, while firms in other Districts   reported pockets of robust demand for professional, scientific, and technical   services. In transportation, reports were, again, mixed. In addition, hurricane   disruptions slowed freight shipments in some Districts, while simultaneously   boosting demand for shipments of emergency supplies. In banking and financial   services, higher demand for home mortgage loans and auto loans increased   consumer lending in some Districts, although small business loan demand was   generally described as weaker to only moderately higher. Credit quality improved   on net.
Reports on agricultural conditions were mixed, as drought conditions   persisted in several Districts, such as Atlanta, Chicago, and Kansas City; other   areas reported solid production and, in some cases, increased investment. In the   energy sector, extraction expanded on balance in San Francisco and activity   remained at high levels in the Minneapolis and Dallas Districts. However, there   were fewer active oil rigs in Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. In   addition, coal production fell in the Cleveland and Kansas City Districts. Most   Districts reported modest gains in hiring, while wage and price pressures   remained mostly subdued. Employment increased in more than half of the twelve   Districts. Wage growth was described as modest at best, constrained in part by   an abundant labor supply. However, a few Districts reported pockets of strength   in wage growth, notably in North Dakota, where oil drilling had pushed up demand   for workers, and in the Kansas City District, where wages were rising for   specialized workers in transportation, high-tech, and energy. San Francisco   reported stronger wage growth for truck drivers and health-care workers. Price   increases, for the most part, remained in line with the modest pace reported in   our last assessment. Examples of some exceptions were input prices for   construction in Cleveland, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco.   Richmond reported generally slower retail price increases, and in Chicago,   retail food prices eased, except for meats. In contrast, Kansas City contacts   indicated that retail prices had edged up.
Automobile sales varied by District, with Cleveland, St. Louis, Minneapolis,   and San Francisco indicating strength. Sales of both new and used vehicles in   the San Francisco District were reported as running well above year-ago levels.   Car sales were strong in Atlanta, although a bit less robust than earlier in the   year. Richmond car sales were mixed. New York contacts said sales had flattened,   and sales held steady in Kansas City. In contrast, auto sales slowed in   Philadelphia and new vehicle sales fell at dealerships contacted by Chicago and   Dallas. Sales of used vehicles were also mixed. Used car sales remained robust   in New York and rose in Cleveland, with Cleveland District inventories remaining   tight; in St. Louis, a majority of dealerships noted that used car sales had   decreased relative to new car purchases, and in Minneapolis, used car sales   softened.
Looking to the holiday sales season, the Districts whose contacts gave an   outlook noted mostly upbeat expectations. New York retailers anticipated   recovering lost sales during the holiday season, and in Philadelphia,   expectations remained bright overall for holiday sales, despite somewhat less   optimism among general retailers. Boston contacts indicated that they were   positioning their businesses for increased internet sales, and a Richmond   retailer commented that he was competing with his suppliers for online sales.   While retailers anticipated a good holiday season in Minneapolis, mall contacts   reported recent declines in traffic and sales. Contacts in Boston, Cleveland,   and Chicago remarked on their uncertain sales expectations because of the   potential for tax changes in 2013, as the national budget outlook remained   uncertain.
Tourism slowed in some Districts while strengthening in others. New York   District tourism was mixed prior to Hurricane Sandy; hotel bookings initially   dropped off following the storm, but business bounced back the next week. In   addition, late cancellation of the New York marathon likely brought large   numbers of visitors to the city in early November. Hurricane Sandy affected   areas of the Philadelphia District along the coastlines of Delaware and southern   New Jersey, in some cases demolishing houses and devastating businesses. New   Jersey also suffered losses in revenue from the closure of Atlantic City casinos   and the cancellation or delay of conventions there; expectations were that most   areas along the Jersey shore would be rebuilt and ready for the summer season.   Richmond reported seasonally slower autumn bookings, along with scattered   cancellations caused by Hurricane Sandy, and in the Kansas City District,   tourism spending fell, leading to price reductions by hoteliers. In contrast,   travel and tourism remained strong in Atlanta, with international visitors   bolstering activity in Florida and District convention bookings picking up. The   exception there was at cruise lines, for which bookings continued to fall below   expectations. Travel and tourism rose in Minneapolis.
Transportation sector activity was generally mixed since the last assessment.   Dallas noted that intermodal cargo volumes were down. Declines in rail cargo   volumes were led by such products as coal, metals, and forest materials. Atlanta   also cited declines in coal shipments, due to softening global demand for   metallurgical coal and less demand from domestic utility plants. Cleveland   reported fewer freight shipments, which their contacts attributed to hurricane   disruptions and weakness in Europe, even as freight demand was boosted by   housing, motor vehicles, and retail. Kansas City also noted a pickup in trucking   traffic due to emergency food shipments in the wake of Hurricane Sandy. Shippers   in that District also reported an increase in their capital expenditures.   According to contacts for the Dallas District, domestic airline demand was flat   to down, and in the St. Louis District, air transportation firms announced plans   to reduce operations.
Noteworthy gains in manufacturing related to the aerospace industry were   reported in the Richmond and San Francisco Districts, while demand for aviation   equipment held steady in Dallas. Steel production was down slightly in   Cleveland, while the demand for steel in the San Francisco District improved a   bit from low levels. Manufacturing contacts from five of the twelve Districts   expressed concern about the outlook for 2013, in part, due to the uncertainty   regarding the outcome of the fiscal cliff.
Construction and commercial real estate activity generally improved across   Districts since the last report. Gains, albeit modest in most cases, were   reported by Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, and Minneapolis. The gains among   Cleveland's contacts were tempered by reports in recent weeks of a slowdown in   inquiries and a decline in public-sector projects. Kansas City described   activity as holding firm and noted that real estate markets remained stronger   than a year ago. Demand for office and industrial space continued to increase in   Dallas, although contacts at some businesses said they were "holding back on   expansions due to uncertainty." Several Districts noted segments of little   change in commercial real estate activity. Boston described market fundamentals   as flat, and San Francisco depicted market conditions as stable but with pockets   of strength for large infrastructure projects such as roads and bridges.   Commercial and industrial conditions were mixed in the St. Louis District and   throughout most of New York prior to the hurricane. New York added that, while   office markets across upstate New York were unaffected by the storm, there were   some signs of recent softening.
Credit standards and credit quality were somewhat improved, on net, since the   last report. Chicago, St. Louis, and Kansas City noted that credit standards on   most types of loans were unchanged, and Dallas cited a loosening of credit   standards, which contributed to very competitive loan pricing. Atlanta cited   contacts who reported that underwriting standards had become more restrictive   and burdensome since its last report, both in terms of credit scores and   information requests. With respect to loan quality, New York reported that   delinquency rates increased in the consumer and commercial and industrial   segments but held steady in the residential and commercial mortgage segments.   Philadelphia contacts cited moderate improvement. Cleveland and Richmond noted   improvements in delinquency rates across consumer and business loan categories.   Richmond added, however, that some contacts were concerned that banks were   increasing their risk exposure by making longer-term loans in an effort to get   higher yields. Kansas City and San Francisco also mentioned moderate improvement   in loan quality.
Activity in the energy industry was generally mixed since the last report.   Coal production was above year-ago levels in the St. Louis District but was   lower in the Cleveland and Kansas City Districts. More electricity was being   generated from natural gas in Kansas City. In the Atlanta District, Hurricane   Sandy's damage to refineries and infrastructure in the Northeast caused   southeastern regional refiners to increase production and transportation of oil   products to supply affected areas. Minneapolis reported that oil and gas   production remained at record levels but noted that exploration activity was   flat to down in some areas since our last report. Similarly, extraction activity   in the San Francisco District expanded on balance for petroleum and natural gas,   although the number of rigs used for natural gas extraction fell as producers   shifted their activities toward higher-valued oil formations. The number of   active oil rigs also fell in the Kansas City and Dallas Districts. Minneapolis   mentioned that iron mines in northern Minnesota remained busy, although   production fell slightly compared to recent months.
Wage pressures were generally characterized as "subdued" or "contained"   throughout much of the nation, according to the latest District reports.   Virtually every District described wage growth as modest at best. Contacts in   the Atlanta District attributed flatness in wages to the large number of   applicants for newly posted positions. Richmond reported that manufacturing and   retail wage growth edged up, but wage growth slowed at non-retail firms. In   addition, non-labor costs were increasing in the Chicago District, mostly due to   health-care costs. St. Louis cited stable wages but added that non-labor costs   in manufacturing were rising. Minneapolis noted pockets of stronger wage growth   in some geographical areas, such as North Dakota where oil drilling was pushing   up demand for workers. However, even this pressure was easing in recent weeks.   Kansas City noted strengthening in wage growth among specialized positions in   transportation and high-tech firms. Finally, San Francisco noted that limited   hiring and abundant labor supply were holding down wage and compensation   increases. However, San Francisco added that a few cases of wage pressures were   occurring among truck drivers, health-care workers, and entry level positions in   areas with low unemployment.
As with wages, price pressures changed little from the modest pace that was   reported in the last assessment. Almost every District described price growth as   modest, although examples of higher price growth were occasionally cited. For   example, Atlanta noted that, even though overall input price increases had   eased, firms were being challenged by higher energy and crop-related input   prices and by rising health-care costs. Cleveland, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas   City, and San Francisco all reported increasing prices of construction-related   materials, and Chicago and Minneapolis also cited increases in metals prices. In   addition, Kansas City remarked on rising prices in construction materials and   manufacturing raw materials in general. Richmond reported increasing raw   materials prices and slower increases in finished goods prices. Retail prices in   general eased in the Richmond District, and Chicago noted that retail food   prices eased, except for meats. According to contacts in the Kansas City   District, however, retail prices edged higher. In the Richmond District, the   pace of increases in services prices also moved up.
