The economy in the Fourth District grew at a modest pace since our last report.   On balance, manufacturing orders and production rose. Residential and   nonresidential construction activity increased, with particular strength noted   in the multi family segment. Realtors reported a rise in purchases of existing   homes. Retailers and auto dealers saw higher sales during October relative to   year-ago levels. Conventional oil and gas well output held steady, while coal   production trended lower. Freight transport volume slowed. And the demand for   business credit moved slightly higher.
Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors. Exceptions were found in the   auto industry, where hiring continued at a more robust pace, and construction,   where payrolls began to grow. Staffing-firm representatives said that the number   of job openings has picked up slightly during the past six weeks. Vacancies were   found primarily in manufacturing, information technology, and healthcare. Wage   pressures are contained. Input prices were stable, apart from increases in   construction materials.
Little change in capacity utilization was reported; rates were within or   slightly below their normal range. Several companies, particularly those serving   the energy and transportation sectors, reported plans to expand capacity.   Capital spending was largely on track. Raw material prices were either flat or   trended lower, while finished goods prices were mainly steady. Manufacturers   noted that they are feeling pressure from customers to lower prices. The auto   industry provided a boost to District employment. Otherwise, manufacturing   payrolls expanded at a modest pace, even at companies experiencing a pick-up in   demand. Wage pressures are contained, and rising health insurance premiums   remain a challenge.
Nonresidential contractors reported that business activity is expanding.   Although inquiries have slowed in the past few weeks, most builders are   satisfied with their backlogs going into 2013. Project work is driven by   multifamily housing and industrial contracts. Public-sector projects have   declined. Obtaining financing remains difficult, particularly for projects that   are deemed speculative by lenders. Nonetheless, contractors are cautiously   optimistic about activity going into 2013.
Residential and nonresidential builders reported higher prices for   construction materials, especially drywall and lumber, with rising prices being   attributed in part to a cutback in output by suppliers. Many builders have added   to their payrolls during the past couple of months, although some layoffs of   seasonal workers are expected. Wage pressure was felt among the skilled trades   due to a lack of qualified workers.
New-vehicle sales were stronger during October when compared with the same   time period a year ago. Dealers reported that sales of fuel-efficient cars and   compact SUVs are doing well. Truck sales have picked up, with the onset of the   winter season. New-vehicle inventories are rising, although one dealer said that   trucks are in short supply. Dealers expect little change in monthly sales for   the remainder of this year. Purchases of used vehicles rose slightly, though   inventories are still tight. Leasing continued to grow in popularity, which   should help to replenish the used-vehicle inventory by mid-2013. Bank credit was   more readily available as is captive financing. Hiring for sales and service   positions is slow. We heard reports about dealers partnering with technical   colleges to train people for all facets of dealership work.
