Fifth District economic activity strengthened at a tempered pace since our last   report. Manufacturing activity improved, retail sales increased moderately, and   customer demand rose modestly at non-retail services firms. Reports on banking   conditions were mixed, and mortgage refinancing bolstered consumer lending. Real   estate markets also strengthened, with both residential and commercial contacts   reporting an uptick in activity. In contrast, labor market activity slowed since   our last report. Also, tourism contacts noted a seasonal decline in   reservations. Agricultural conditions were favorable before Hurricane Sandy   arrived, although some farmers in the District were affected by the storm.   Manufacturers' input prices and finished goods prices rose at a slower rate,   while wages rose more quickly. The pace of service providers' price increases   edged up and non-retail wage growth slowed. Price increases slowed at retailers,   while wages rose at a faster pace. Several businesses lost power during   Hurricane Sandy, but most returned quickly to normal operations. In addition, we   received reports of supplier issues and less customer traffic.
Commercial real estate and construction improved slightly over the last few   months. While some contacts stated that activity remained weak and little   changed from the summer months, most contacts reported modest gains in at least   some segments of their local market. A real estate representative in the   Baltimore area said that her third quarter market report showed "grinding and   gradual improvement," with the majority of growth in the Baltimore-DC region. A   developer in the Carolinas reported that absorption rates in the office segment   were improving, even though vacancy rates remained elevated. Other contacts also   noted tightening of available office space, especially among Class A properties,   but attributed some of that gain to the lack of new construction. A Charlotte   Realtor described his market as "choppy," with downtown office space faring   better than suburban locations. He also noted some tightening in industrial   space, due mostly to expansion of distribution and call center demand. Several   contacts, especially in Virginia, noted slight improvements in retail vacancy   rates for restaurants and apparel stores. Most Realtors reported modest firming   in leasing rates, although concessions on long-term leases were occasionally   available. While several contractors noted a slowdown in government and   education-related projects, private sector projects were edging forward, most   notably for strip malls in underserved areas and for distribution centers near   major retail markets. Additionally, a contact reported expanding activity at   industrial and health care facilities.
