Reports from business contacts in the First District reflect a growing economy,   although the pace of growth appears to be somewhat slower than in the last   round. Retailers cite mixed sales results, manufacturers note slow growth, and   software and IT services firms report disappointing results. By contrast,   staffing firms are seeing a pick-up in growth. Commercial real estate contacts   indicate that fundamentals remain flat, and sentiment has soured somewhat in   recent weeks; residential real estate respondents say growth in home sales has   slowed but home prices are rising modestly in some areas. Hurricane Sandy   reportedly had very modest effects on economic activity in New England. Prices   are said to be level in general, with minimal inflationary pressures. While some   firms cite shortages of specialized workers, few are hiring, none extensively,   and no one mentions upward wage pressures.
Respondents say that prices are holding steady and they do not see   inflationary pressures. Many contacts are actively managing inventories to   remain nimble and some are undertaking multi-year plans to better position their   businesses for the future in which the Internet will account for an increasing   share of sales. Because of the so-called fiscal cliff, there is some uncertainty   about what to expect in terms of tax policy; this is viewed as particularly   affecting planning by small businesses.
Firms that are growing attribute growth to idiosyncratic factors and not to   the economy. A pet healthcare firm plans for 7.5 percent growth in 2012 but says   it is all the result of "innovation" and not the economy. A manufacturer of   medical equipment said government spending on VA hospitals had led to a large   increase in demand for its products. A semiconductor equipment manufacturing   firm reported a dramatic reduction in its expected sales in the fourth quarter.   As in recent Beige Book rounds, they blame this on the semiconductor equipment   "cycle."
We continue to hear occasional complaints of difficulty finding qualified   workers. A pharmaceutical manufacturer reports hiring 75 new people this year   but still having 58 openings which they have been trying to fill "for a long   time" and which "they do not anticipate to be able to fill this year..." They   attribute the difficulty to their need for "highly qualified scientists with   specific sets of skills." A manufacturer of analytical laboratory equipment   finds it "increasingly difficult to find qualified people in China."
In general, manufacturing contacts' recent weakness has not yet led them to   revise substantially their capital expenditure plans. That said, many of these   plans involve spending outside the United States. For example, a manufacturer of   lab equipment is spending almost 50 percent more this year than is typical, but   all that increment involves a new plant in England; capital expenditure in the   U.S. is entirely on maintenance.
Looking forward, New England software and IT contacts are generally less   upbeat than they were three and six months ago, with many expressing growing   concerns regarding the "fiscal cliff" and macroeconomic conditions in Europe.   Most expect only modest growth through Q1 2013.
A majority of contacts note that business sentiment soured recently, with the   national election results and the fiscal situation cited as key factors. The   outlook for commercial real estate among our contacts turned more pessimistic on   balance in light of these same factors and also, according to some, risks to   growth stemming from Europe and other parts of the world. While contacts report   no immediate impacts of Hurricane Sandy on the commercial real estate markets in   their respective cities, two contacts point out that insurance rates for   commercial structures along the Eastern seaboard are likely to rise going   forward, restraining development in some areas.
Outlooks for the coming month remain similar to previous reports in spite of   less robust growth recently. Contacts generally say the housing market continues   to recover and expect positive year-over-year growth in sales in the coming   months because of low interest rates and affordable prices; they also expect   modest appreciation in prices. Inventory levels are not expected to increase   until the Spring. Overall, contacts remain optimistic about the recovery in the   housing market, but caution that gains could be undermined by worsening economic   conditions.
