In December and January, Ninth District business conditions remained sluggish. General merchandise sales as well as manufacturing and mining production expanded modestly, auto and home sales continued at November's depressed level, and the output of saw mills declined. These weaknesses were reflected in the continuing sluggishness in bank lending. Agricultural conditions, on the other hand, were still quite good, but recent price changes and moisture levels hint that they might not remain as good later this year. Consumer Spending Consumer spending continued weak. According to bank directors and major Minneapolis-St. Paul retailers, a last-minute spurt in holiday shopping boosted general merchandise sales only enough to match November's modest increases. The postholiday drop in sales was no greater than usual, which suggests that general merchandise sales, seasonally adjusted, also expanded modestly again in early January. These modest increases were not accompanied by gains in auto and home sales. In December and early January, the number of new domestic cars sold in the district matched November's low number. Home sales also remained weak. In December and early January, the dollar value of mortgage loan applications at Minneapolis-St. Paul area S&Ls matched November's low dollar value. Industrial Production and Inventories Industrial activity also remained weak. High interest rates and uncertainty about the economy, directors believe, made businesses hesitant to spend and to add to their inventories. Because of this hesitancy, directors report, most manufacturing and mining production expanded only modestly in December/January as it did in November. Hit much harder than manufacturing and mining was lumber production. Reports from western Montana, for example, indicate that many saw mills have recently shut down or reduced operations. Financial Developments Reflecting the weaknesses in the district's economy was the continuing sluggishness in bank lending. Bank directors from outside the Minneapolis-St. Paul area report that bank lending did not pickup between November and December/January and that banks have plenty of funds to lend. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, loans outstanding at commercial banks did increase modestly between the end of November and early January, but banks still have plenty of funds to lend. Agricultural Conditions In contrast to the rest of the district's economy, agricultural conditions remained quite good. Even though prices stopped rising, the district in December and January continued to benefit from the big rise in agricultural prices last summer and fall. Furthermore, farmers have had larger than expected crops to sell at these high prices. Final crop estimates, for example, indicate that the corn and soybean crops in Minnesota were, respectively, 8 and 4 percent larger than estimated last November. Although agricultural conditions have been good, they might not continue to be in the future. Since November, for instance, farm prices have either remained the same or declined. Between November and mid-January, corn and wheat prices did not increase and soybean prices dropped 9 percent in Minneapolis. During this same period, cattle prices did not increase and hog prices declined 8 percent in South St. Paul. The lack of moisture is also a potential problem in parts of the district. Except for the district's northeastern corner, the district has received very little snow. As of mid-January, the district's eastern half had only about an inch of snow on the ground and the western half had no snow. This lack of snow has endangered the district's winter wheat crop and aroused concerns that the soil may not have enough moisture to get this spring's crops off to a good start.