Overview The Federal Reserve Bank reports indicate further slowing in economic activity in January in some Districts and generally sluggish growth over most of the nation. Slower growth was reported by Cleveland and Richmond; Chicago reported the economy of the Seventh District was probably the weakest in the nation. Activity was described as sluggish or showing little strength in the Third, Ninth and Tenth Districts. In contrast, improvement in economic activity was reported in the Eleventh District, and factory employment and hours worked rose moderately in the Sixth. Consumer Spending Retail sales slackened in most Districts in January following an upsurge around Christmas. An upsurge during or prior to Christmas was reported by New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas. Most of the Districts, however, report sales declines and softness following the holidays. Those specifically reporting declines include San Francisco, Dallas, Kansas City, Minneapolis, St. Louis, Cleveland and Philadelphia. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity is varied among the Districts. With few exceptions the reports indicate some slowing or sluggishness in manufacturing. Boston reported a slight decline in output and new orders; Philadelphia, small cuts in payrolls and working hours; Richmond, a slight reduction in shipments and a decline in new orders; and, Chicago, that serious problems exist for the major District industries (motor vehicles and components, farm equipment and construction equipment). Philadelphia reported no change in overall manufacturing activity, while Cleveland reported strong steel shipments, aerospace business in excess of capacity and very strong petrochemical business. Rising manufacturing activity was reported in both the Sixth and Eleventh Districts led by a strong wood, pulp and electronics industries in the Sixth, and a booming oil and gas drilling equipment industry in the Eleventh District. Construction Homebuilding activity is quite weak or declining according to District reports. On the other hand, relatively strong commercial and industrial construction was noted in the Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas Districts. High interest rates were commonly cited as the main factor depressing home sales. San Francisco, for example, reported that most potential homebuyers cannot qualify for loans at present interest rates. Cleveland and Dallas noted, however, that home sales were somewhat higher than might be expected at these high interest rates because of special financing arrangements. These include lower rates to buyers of homes on which the lender holds the construction loan (Atlanta), federal government programs (St. Louis) and local housing bonds (Dallas). Inventories Relatively high interest rates have reduced the desired level of inventories according to several reports (Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas and San Francisco). No widespread inventory buildup was reported but some Districts noted inventory excesses. Richmond reported that nearly one-half of all manufacturers in their District felt that current stocks are excessive even though actual stocks of materials and finished good were down slightly. Some retailers and manufacturers in the Tenth District reported slightly higher than desired inventories. Dallas noted that inventories of unsold new homes are rising, although builders did not consider them excessive. Financial Developments Recent loan activity is mixed. Increases in business loan activity were reported by Philadelphia, Dallas, and at New York at year-end. Declining or sluggish activity was reported by Richmond, Minneapolis, and St. Louis. Among other types of loans, such as real estate, agricultural, and consumer loans, declining activity was generally noted. Financial officials reported a somewhat greater response to NOW accounts than expected. Most funds placed in NOW accounts are coming from existing accounts at the institutions, according to Dallas and San Francisco. San Francisco reports that NOW accounts appear to be creating a higher cost structure for all financial institutions, and St. Louis reports that some bankers expect their introduction to depress profits. Agriculture Lack of moisture throughout much of the nation is reported to be endangering the nation's winter wheat crop and, if sustained, could endanger spring-planted crops as well. The Kansas City District, a primary wheat growing area, reports that the winter wheat crop is in "reasonably good condition," but that moisture will be needed soon to prevent its deterioration. Atlanta reported that Florida's orange and vegetable crops were substantially reduced due to unusually cold weather.