Summary The economy of the Seventh District is probably the weakest in the nation, with no improvement in sight. Its dominant durable goods industries, both consumer and capital goods, are operating well below capacity. Some companies, however, report a recent uptrend in orders. While credit is available, high interest rates are severely restricting activity, especially housing and vehicles, but also inventory and capital spending policies generally. Some S&Ls face possible financial crises. Unemployment is high and jobs are hard to find. Retail sales were strong just before and after Christmas, but may have slowed recently. Farmland values rose again in the fourth quarter. Seventh District problems The Seventh District has probably been impacted more severely than any other by the economic problems of the past two years. Industries concentrated here, especially motor vehicles and components, farm equipment, and construction equipment, are in deep trouble with no improvement seen in the months ahead. Instead of counterbalancing a slump in industry, as has happened in the past, the district's farm sector also has been depressed. Economic stringencies, strongly reinforced by outward migration of people and industry, have made the housing situation much worse here than nationally. High and rising energy prices have had a relatively more harmful effect here, mainly because of heating costs. The district has received little benefit from the energy boom or the defense buildup. Labor markets. New unemployment insurance claims remain at high levels throughout the district. Help-wanted lineage in Chicago papers was 40 percent below a year ago in the fourth quarter, and January has been about as bad. Although computer programmers, nurses, and certain other specialties are in short supply, demand for workers, generally, is very weak. Some examples: (1) an erroneous report that a Chicago-area major steel company was hiring attracted several thousand people, who created a dangerous mob scene; (2) an ad for bus drivers in Milwaukee brought a deluge of applicants that overwhelmed interviewers; (3) a trucking company reported a much improved supply of qualified drivers; (4) a bank in a smaller Indiana city reported 60 applicants, two-thirds qualified, for one clerical position paying $7,500. Companies interview many people "overqualified" for available jobs. Quality of entry-level job applicants in the larger cities, however, is deplorable. High interest rates. Record high interest rates clearly are holding back many types of activity. Loans of all types continue to be available to creditworthy borrowers, in contrast to the situation last spring. However, tighter lending criteria turn away increasing numbers of marginal borrowers. More important, interest as a cost has become an overriding consideration for many businesses, and institutions. Car dealers are being forced out by "killing" floor plan rates-22 1/2 percent, recently. High rates have kept inventories abnormally low for many manufacturers, distributors, and retailers. Some smaller manufacturers who had been expanding steadily are deliberately shrinking their operations in order to hold down interest costs. More larger firms are restricting outlays to internally-generated funds. High rates paid for CDs are seriously undermining many S&Ls, some of large size. Credit problems Firms with a "receivables problem" are increasingly widespread. A dramatic stretchout in payments on receivables occurred for some firms in the past year. Partly, this is because of weakened financial positions of customers, but it also reflects a desire to reduce borrowing costs, and, in the case of cash-rich firms, to increase earnings on liquid assets. Capital goods Backlogs for most types of capital equipment and components appear to be declining, but there are notable exceptions. Farm and construction equipment are especially weak with some plants closed. Railroad equipment is in a steep decline and heavy trucks have softened. In contrast, the oil and gas field is swamped with orders. Heavy castings picked up in December, but output is only about 50 percent of capacity. One diversified capital goods producer reported an uptrend in orders in December, followed by a surprising surge in early January, but the reasons are not clear, and this improvement is not reported by companies. Motor vehicles Output schedules for cars and trucks are being reduced, and sales estimates for the year have been scaled down. The new slump has affected even the most popular small U.S. and imported cars. The auto industry blames the Federal Reserve for its plight, playing down higher prices. Since consumer loan rates are widely subsidized, the "perception" of high rates is blamed. Dealerships continue to close, and many of the strongest are said to be losing money. Steel Steel orders have slowed somewhat, with lead times shortening. Some companies say shipments will be relatively good in January and. February, but March is doubtful. However, a leading company is shipping at capacity and expects to continue to do so through March. Retail sales General merchandise and specialty store sales surged just before Christmas, helped by price cuts, and remained at a good level into early January. In recent weeks, however, sales slipped back. Several long-established chains are closing marginal stores. Transportation. Railroad traffic, except for coal and grain, is depressed. Newly-purchased freight cars are standing idle. Trucking companies are experiencing intense competition under deregulation. Rates are being discounted, and fluctuate daily. Many companies are expected to fold up or merge with stronger firms. Operators facing nonunion competition are expecting aggressive bargaining with the Teamsters in 1982. Construction Home mortgage rates are quoted in the 14 1/2 to l6 1/2-percent range, but few customers apply. "Creative financing" takes many forms, for example, one-year rollover mortgages. Housing starts in large district centers were off 70 to 90 percent in 1980 from the 1977-78 level, and virtually zero in some smaller towns. The current picture suggests an even bleaker 1981 if rates do not decline soon. Office building construction continues strong in downtown Chicago with important new projects being started. Agriculture Our farmland survey shows a 4 percent rise in values in the fourth quarter, following a 5 percent rise in the third quarter. Liquidity of rural banks continues to improve. A high proportion of these banks are net sellers of federal funds, in part because of soft demand for loans at current rates.