Overview Business conditions in the Tenth District continue to show little strength. Softness in retail sales is expected to continue for a while, and the short-term outlook for auto sales is viewed as poor. Inventories of retailers and manufacturers are higher than desired. The winter wheat crop is in some danger due to lack of moisture. Loan demand at commercial banks has weakened recently, with loans to the energy industry an exception. Retail Sales and Inventories Most Tenth District retailers indicate that total dollar sales in 1980 were 5-10 per cent greater than in 1979. But sales in December 1980 and January 1981 have not shown that much strength in most areas of the District. Sales have been strongest in durable goods and higher priced items, primarily quality apparel. Most retailers expect the current softness of total sales to continue, at least through the first and second quarters. A majority of retailers continue to report negligible merchandise cost increases in recent months are reducing upward pressure on retail prices. Most retailers note recent downward pressure on profit margins because of increases in advertising expenditures, utility bills, and other operational expenses. The recent weakness in total dollar sales leaves most retailers in the Tenth District with inventory levels that are slightly higher than desirable. However, none of the retailers report any plans for extra clearance sales in January or February. All retailers expect to continue past practices of tightly controlling inventory levels, through the first half of 1981. Manufacturers Inventories and Input Prices Over half the purchasing agents contacted report that input prices are above their year-ago levels by 10 per cent or less, but with increases as great or greater in recent months than in most of 1980. Lead times on deliveries are satisfactory throughout the District. There has been some undesired accumulation of materials inventories, but most companies are satisfied with their inventory levels. New purchase orders for most companies are down or unchanged from last year. About one-half of the companies contacted report excess operating capacity and laid off workers. Automobile Sales District Automobile Dealers' Associations report very sluggish sales and a poor short-term outlook, with high interest rates a major factor. The automakers' finance companies, now charging about 15-1/2 per cent, are the primary source of customer financing. Excess inventories are causing problems for many dealers, especially since they must pay over 20 per cent interest to finance those inventories. Although few dealers have recently gone out of business, more closings are anticipated before spring. Housing Finance Savings and Loan Association spokesmen report that savings inflows were somewhat higher in 1980 than in 1979. Most are mildly optimistic about inflows in the near future, mainly because of the introduction of NOW accounts. Demand for residential mortgages continues to be very depressed, and the outlook is bleak. Conventional mortgage rates are in the 14-15 per cent range, and are expected to remain there through early 1981. Banking Developments Loan demand weakened at most Tenth District banks contacted this month as borrowers reacted to the high level of interest rates. Only commercial and industrial loans exhibited strength, and much of this activity was concentrated in the energy industry in Oklahoma. Real estate, agriculture, and consumer loans are depressed across the District. Most large banks report a 20 per cent prime rate, up from 18 1/2 per cent in December. At the same time there were scattered reports of increased price competition in response to the weaker loan demand. Deposits at Tenth District banks were generally up during the past month with much of the increase in interest bearing deposits. Money market certificates show strong growth in response to the rise in yields. At the same time, some of the larger banks are beginning to run off large CD's. All banks contacted began offering NOW's and most report consumer response equal to or greater than projected. Most bankers feel that the bulk of the increase in NOW's is coming from existing demand deposits and from conversion of ATS accounts. Little new money is being attracted to these accounts because of relatively high minimum balances and service charges. Banks report some net outflow of funds in those areas with strong competition from savings institutions. Agriculture The District winter wheat crop appears to be in reasonably good condition, despite a lack of snow cover which is needed to protect the wheat seedlings from wind damage and extreme temperatures during February and March. Additional moisture is necessary within the next month to prevent deterioration of the crop. Cattle producers in the Tenth District, many of whom only broke even during 1980, are having some difficulties repaying current loans. Area bankers are requesting that these producers seek partial or total funding for 1981 from the Farmers' Home Administration. Producers in Nebraska have been suffering the most because cattle prices there are lower than elsewhere in the District. Interest rates on short and intermediate term loans at agricultural banks in the District are in the 17 to 18 per cent range. As a result loan demand is presently lower than at any time since the start of the Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank's agricultural credit survey in 1976.