Summary The District economy continues to show signs of a gradual recovery. Manufacturing employment, except in defense-related industries, is strengthening somewhat and contacts expect further improvement before year-end. Manufacturing activity is mixed. Consumer spending remains depressed. Lower interest rates have stimulated new and existing home sales, although sources do not expect a rebound in residential construction until next year. The fall harvest continues to progress, but yields on some crops have been hurt by adverse weather. Employment Although respondents in many areas of the District expect some improvement before year-end, employment growth continues to be characterized by contacts as flat or weak. A number of District employers, especially those in defense-related industries, have announced small- and medium-sized layoffs in recent months. In contrast, a major home appliance manufacturer has been able to keep employment levels stable because declines in shipments and orders in recent months were correctly anticipated. A large apparel manufacturer, which reduced employment significantly this year, plans to rehire some or all of these workers in the near future. In addition, respondents in Arkansas and northern Mississippi believe their regions are rebounding, as evidenced by rising demand for manufacturing workers. A survey of Memphis companies revealed that more plan to add workers in the fourth quarter than they did in the third, holiday staffing excluded. Manufacturing Overall manufacturing activity remains weak, with durable goods manufacturers somewhat more upbeat about the future than producers of nondurable goods. Auto parts manufacturers in Arkansas have expanded production and hired more workers because of increased activity in the auto sector. A District home appliance manufacturer reports industry shipments have been flat on a seasonally adjusted annual basis, despite the significant downturn in housing construction. Manufacturers of defense-related products, however, report significant declines in new orders. Most contacts expect no upturn in capital spending in the near future. An Arkansas apparel maker reports higher sales, but also lower margins because of higher wage and input costs. He says that retailers have been reluctant to pass on these higher costs to consumers. In the food processing sector, most manufacturers report that the recession has not hurt business significantly. Consumer Spending Retail sales remain "poor," according to many contacts. Declines in interest rates have not stimulated purchases of traditionally interest-sensitive goods, such as automobiles. One contact noted that, despite rising personal income and employment in Arkansas, household spending continues to decline. Many District retailers are trying to jumpstart sales by beginning holiday advertising and sales earlier than usual, without additional workers. Housing and Finance Housing starts have not picked up appreciably in recent months and no significant rebound is expected until 1992. New home sales, especially to first-time homebuyers, have improved slightly because of declines in interest rates. Contacts stress that many prospective buyers have remained out of the housing market because of concerns about their future employment and expectations of still-lower interest rates in the months ahead. One St. Louis mortgage banker noted that, although mortgage demand has picked up slightly, one- half of all closed real estate loans still are refinancings. Total loans outstanding at a sample of 93 District banks increased more during the last two months than they had the previous two months, with all categories but real estate showing improvement. Transportation Barge movements and rates charged for shipments on the Mississippi river in the St. Louis area have increased lately. Seasonal harvest activities and increased exports have provided the impetus. Barge traffic in Paducah has kept pace with last year's record level, while transportation of nonagricultural raw materials has boosted barge activity in Little Rock. Air cargo shipments have fallen below year-earlier levels in Louisville and St. Louis, but they are up significantly in Memphis. Agriculture and Natural Resources The fall harvest is nearing completion for most crops. Corn and soybean yields, hurt by lack of moisture during critical periods this summer, are expected to be lower in most District states. Although a record rice crop is predicted in Arkansas, contacts report that disease and cold weather may have damaged yields. Insects are reported to be affecting parts of the cotton crops in Arkansas, Mississippi and Tennessee, but a good crop is expected nonetheless. Year-to-date coal production is down from last year's levels in Illinois and western Kentucky, but is up slightly in Indiana. Southern pine lumber mills report that orders, production and shipments all are up compared with a year ago.