Summary Underlying trends in the District economy have changed little over the past month, according to most contacts, although continued sluggishness in consumer demand has led to some slowing in the pace of recovery in industrial activity. Manufacturers generally continued to provide an important contribution to District growth, but several contacts stated that auto production gains could slow in the fourth quarter if car sales growth does not improve. District commercial and industrial loan demand remained soft, in part due to moderate requirements for inventory financing. The agricultural harvest is proceeding rapidly, and harvest estimates have been raised recently. Consumer Spending District contacts indicate that consumer spending gains remained sluggish in September and early October, with dollar sales depressed by intense price competition. A large general merchandise chain reported continued flat sales and stated that there was little sign of a recovery in consumer spending. A retailers' association in Indiana stated that its membership's sales growth generally remains flat, while losses from bad checks have not improved significantly. A retailing analyst reported that consumer caution has slowed spending growth in Iowa to the rate seen nationally, despite relatively high levels of consumer resources. Citing longer car holding periods, a retailers' association in Michigan stated that vehicle service stores were doing relatively well. After consistent year-over-year declines in sales over the summer months, a large department store chain reported that sales in early October were running slightly ahead of last year, but the year-ago comparison was against the period when sales began to be impacted by the recession. Sales for the rest of the year are expected to be flat with a year ago, according to this contact. A market research firm reported that Christmas purchasing plans dropped from August to September, reaching a level below the weak year-earlier period. Autos Disappointing new car sales growth could temper the production gains being experienced in the Districts auto industry. Several industry analysts noted that September sales rates benefited from strong fleet sales, and fleet sales are expected to run through November. An industry economist reported that car demand from individuals had improved somewhat early in the summer, but slipped a little in recent months. Current car and light truck production plans for the fourth quarter imply a small gain from the third quarter on a seasonally adjusted basis, and a small decline in the first quarter of 1992, according to one economist. An auto parts supplier remained apprehensive about the first half of 1992 in the absence of an increase in car sales rates, although several analysts anticipated increasingly aggressive incentive programs in coming months. A finance subsidiary of a large automaker reported continued growth in lending, citing a pullback from banks in financing consumer purchases and dealers' inventory. Delinquency rates have caused some "severe heartburn" for many lenders, according to this contact, leading to higher down payments and generally stricter scrutiny of the marginal borrower. However, one industry economist reported that the overall loan turndown rate generally has declined since the first quarter. Because dealer inventory commitments remain very cautious, financing inventory hasn't been a difficult problem for most dealers, according to this contact. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity generally continued to boost the overall District economy in recent weeks. The most recent purchasing managers' surveys for Chicago, Detroit, Western Michigan, Milwaukee and Indianapolis each showed a majority of respondents indicating expansion in orders and production, although some slowing in the pace was indicated in the Chicago survey. A large steel producer reported that the auto industry continued to provide the major source of strength in demand. Steel industry production is expected to continue to expand from the third to fourth quarter (on a seasonally adjusted basis) under conservative assumptions about shipments to the auto industry, according to this contact. A large manufacturer of a wide variety of specialty supplies reported that sales in most product lines remain flat, and that sales of a product that has historically been a leading indicator has yet to show an upturn. A supplier to District manufacturers of metal furniture stated that sales by these firms appeared to have passed their trough, after a difficult period. Sales of construction machinery in the District began to slump again in early August, according to an industry analyst, after a slow recovery earlier in the year. Year- to-date construction machinery sales in the District are still below last year's levels, but the decline has not been so severe as in the nation as a whole. A large shipper stated that overseas shipments of agricultural and construction machinery continued to expand over the summer months. Banking Most banks reported that commercial and industrial loan demand remained soft in recent weeks, with several indicating that most customers remain unwilling to commit to inventories. One middle- market lender reported that loan demand is generally slow, and stated that customer optimism has been waning since a recovery in the summer. Capital spending project cancellations have begun to arise, according to this contact, joining the continuing reports of postponements. A middle-market lender to businesses located throughout the Midwest could not identify a commercial or industrial sector where customers had seen a significant upturn in activity. This banker stated that most customers linked to the auto industry continued to expect some small improvement in sales over the rest of the year, but these expectations had weakened over the past 60 days. Several banks reported that commercial and industrial loan demand in Michigan remained soft, and one contact expressed concern about the state's prospects in the absence of a solid recovery in auto sales. However, one banker reported that several banks in the state were "fully loaned" and were eager to sell participations. A recent survey indicated that firms in the Great Lakes and Pacific regions report the least difficulty in obtaining credit among firms surveyed nationwide, and the survey's directors stated that the survey results show that credit has been easier to obtain during the recent recession than in prior recessions. Residential mortgage loan demand in the District remained a bright spot, according to one contact, as mortgage rates continued to decline around the District. Agriculture The District harvest is progressing rapidly. The corn and soybean harvest ranges from 25 percent complete in Michigan and Wisconsin to 75 percent in Illinois. Except for Iowa, the harvesting progress is double the normal completion rate for early October. Yields are proving much better than expected in many areas, despite a premature killing frost in September. The corn and soybean production estimates for District states were revised upward by 4 and 6 percent, respectively, in the USDA projections released on October 10. The soybean harvest is now expected to match that of a year ago, both in District states and nationwide. Corn production is expected to be down 10 percent in District states and down 6 percent nationwide.