Overview District economic activity was generally weak in late September and early October. Financial institutions reported that the demand for commercial and consumer loans was lackluster. The residential real estate market remained sluggish, though lower interest rates were said to have spurred activity in some areas. Retail activity slowed further, and dry weather reduced prospects for crop yields somewhat. Manufacturing remained steady, and exports increased at District ports. Consumer Spending Our regular survey indicated that retail activity continued to slow in September. Shopper traffic and sales, including sales of big ticket items, apparently fell, as did employment and capital expenditures. Retailers reported increases in wages and in wholesale and retail prices. Respondents were optimistic about the six-month outlook for the economy in general and for their own businesses. They anticipated increases in shopper traffic and sales. Most foresaw little change in employment but expected wages, wholesale prices and retail prices to rise. Manufacturing Responses to our regular survey of manufacturers indicated that District factory activity was stable in September. Manufacturers reported almost no change in most indicators, although shipments, new orders and prices of raw materials increased. Besides poor sales, manufacturers cited excess capacity as their single most important problem. Manufacturers remained optimistic about general business conditions and about their own prospects over the next six months. Half the manufacturers foresaw increases in shipments and new orders, and few expected decreases. Respondents also anticipated increases in order backlogs, employee hours, exports and prices, but they expected little change in inventories, employment or capital expenditures. Port Activity Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that exports were higher in September than in August and that imports remained about the same. Compared with a year earlier, exports were higher and imports were lower. Exports were expected to increase faster than imports during the next six months. Housing Real estate analysts and lenders surveyed by telephone indicated that the residential market remained sluggish in much of the District. Respondents blamed slow sales on potential homebuyers' insecurity about their jobs and income levels. Several, though, suggested that lower interest rates were beginning to spur activity in their areas. Despite large inventories of homes for sale, several noted that prices were steady. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone reported that credit availability and credit standards were unchanged over the last six weeks. Banks reported that demand for consumer and commercial loans remained weak and that commercial demand had softened further. Most banks contacted had lowered loan rates over the last six weeks; as a result, demand increased for the refinancing of home mortgages, as in the previous survey. All of the surveyed banks had reduced their prime lending rates in recent weeks. Agriculture According to District agricultural analysts, a drier-than-normal September had reduced yield prospects for some District crops but had not curtailed fall planting activity. Slightly lower yields were projected for corn, soybeans, peanuts and some types of tobacco, and pastures were said to be in generally poor condition. The apple crop in West Virginia was termed poor, although in the Carolinas, the weather apparently did not affect the apple crop or reduce cotton yields. Dry weather had not yet affected the planting of winter wheat or other small grains underway across much of the District. Planting progress was reported to be somewhat better than normal, but analysts said more rain was needed soon to keep planting activity on schedule.