Summary Economic weakness continues in much of the Twelfth District, though intermountain areas remain relatively strong. Retail sales are sluggish, with some contacts reporting declining consumer confidence. Manufacturing activity is mixed, with conditions in California and the Pacific Northwest deteriorating, while conditions in Idaho and Utah remain stable. The slump in commercial real estate continues, particularly in southern California. Residential sales activity has declined following the rebound in the first half of 1991, but median house prices remain stable. Wage and price increase, with the exception of health care, are modest throughout the District. Outside of refinancing activity, loan demand remains sluggish. Agricultural conditions are mixed. Business Sentiment Economic expectations of Twelfth District business leaden worsened in October. Eighty-five percent of respondents (versus 70 percent in September) now foresee national GNP growth of less than 2.5 percent during the next four quarters. The percentage of business leaden expecting the next four quarters to be characterized by recession increased to 17 percent (versus 7 percent in September), ending a trend of improved recession expectations that began in January. The outlook of business leaders in the West worsened in October for business investment, consumer spending, and the trade balance. The most optimistic expectations of business leaders were in the areas of housing starts and inflation, where about half of the respondents projected some improvement in the next four quarters. Wages and Prices Upward pressures on wages and prices remain minimal throughout most of the Twelfth District. Retail prices continue to be constrained by sluggish consumer demand. Prices have fallen for fresh meats and vegetables, and remain stable for dry goods. Group health care coverage costs are expected to increase 20 to 30 percent, with HMO's projecting increases of 10 to 15 percent. Wage increases in the Twelfth District mostly are reported in the 3 to 4 percent range, although in some areas and industries in the Pacific Northwest, wages are reported to be rising 4 to 5 percent. Retail Trade and Services Consumer spending remains weak in the Twelfth District. Most reports suggest that consumers are hesitant to make large purchases in the face of increased economic uncertainty. Retail soft goods sales remain sluggish, although one retailer notes a recent pick-up in men's clothing sales which the retailer views as a leading indicator of overall sales. In Seattle, the bankruptcies of two large retailers are being blamed partially on sluggish sales. Auto sales also are reported slow, with one dealer indicating that consumers are expecting prices to fall. Business at law firms is reputed flat to down 15 percent with some layoffs expected. State and local government budgets remain tight, especially in California and the Pacific Northwest. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the Twelfth District remains mixed. Conditions in California and in some industries in the Pacific Northwest continue to deteriorate. The aerospace industry in California continues to report layoffs, although the number of job losses is smaller than in the last two years. Boeing still is producing at full capacity, but orders so far in 1991 are well below last year's pace. Low aluminum prices and demand will likely lead to production cutbacks. In Idaho and Utah, however, manufacturing activity is reported stable. In Idaho, solid conditions are reported for food processors and electronics firms. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Agricultural conditions in the Twelfth District are varied, with prices for some crops still low. Farmers in California's Central Valley report declines in fresh fruit and vegetable prices because of high production. In Idaho, dry bean prices are down 50 percent from last year, and potato prices have fallen over 40 percent since Spring. Livestock conditions remain split with producers still profitable, while feedlot operators continue to lose money. Dairy farmers are still facing tough conditions as a result of low prices. The lumber industry continues to face falling finished product prices, while timber prices remain very high. Lumber product prices are expected to continue to erode into early 1992. Electric power prices in the Pacific Northwest have increased recently because of low runoff and the shutdown of two nuclear power plants in the region. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate activity remains slow in much of the Twelfth District, though some strength is reported in Arizona, Idaho, and Utah. New construction is reported to be constrained by lack of credit and the effects of Resolution Trust Corporation sales. Residential home sales, which had rebounded in the first half of the year, now are reported to be sluggish throughout California and the Pacific Northwest, though median prices remain stable. Commercial real estate markets continue to face sizable oversupply, particularly in southern California. In Los Angeles, office rents have plummeted and the downtown vacancy rate reportedly may reach 30 percent in 1992. Financial Institutions Twelfth District financial institutions continue to report mixed conditions. In California and the Pacific Northwest, loan demand remains sluggish outside of refinancing, especially for consumer loans. Non-performing loans continue to rise in California, but some institutions report increased selling or liquidation of these assets. Layoffs are reported among Arizona and California banks. Banking conditions remain solid in Idaho and Utah.