Sources contacted by the Federal Reserve banks generally described the economy in September and early October as weak or growing slowly. In most districts there has been little improvement in retail sales, and a few reported some slowing. Auto sales have generally been weak. Expected crop yields vary, but agricultural prices remain low. Manufacturing output is still improving although at a slower pace in some areas. Several districts reported some increase in home sales, but residential construction is still at low levels. Loan demand has been weak for commercial, industrial, and consumer loans. Some districts noted a pickup in real estate loans, especially refinancings. Consumer Spending Retail sales were reported to be slow or sluggish in most districts. Dallas and San Francisco cited weakness in the retail sector, and in Boston and Philadelphia sales have been flat to slightly below last year's levels. In Atlanta they have been flat to slightly above year-ago levels but have improved little since August. Cleveland and Richmond reported that sales have slowed in the last month. Two districts indicated improvement in retail sales. Kansas City reported sales increased somewhat, and Minneapolis reported "fairly strong" sales. New York, Philadelphia, and Dallas indicated that retail inventories were under control, but some contacts in Cleveland and most in Kansas City considered inventories too high. In general the outlook for the holiday sales season is cautious. In Kansas City, however, some retailers are expecting relatively strong sales for the holiday season, and in Richmond they are optimistic about their business over the next six months. Auto sales were reported to be flat or down from last year in many districts although the Cleveland District indicated that sales rose in late September and early October, and Minneapolis noted a recent surge in truck sales. Several contacts in the Cleveland District said dealers' orders for new models are slightly above year-ago levels: but Atlanta indicated that orders have been mixed and dealers there do not expect an acceleration of demand. Dealers in the Philadelphia District are also pessimistic about prospects for the 1992 model year. Manufacturing In most districts output and shipments in the industrial sector have been stable to slightly higher. Philadelphia noted that the pace of advance had slowed recently. There was also some indication of slower growth in the immediate Chicago area. San Francisco mentioned that conditions were still worsening in California and in the Pacific Northwest while the industrial sector in Idaho and Utah remained stable. Cleveland and Chicago reported that autos and steel have been most responsible for the recent increases in manufacturing. Boston and St. Louis noted weakness in the defense industry. Boston and Cleveland mentioned that manufacturing inventories are at satisfactory levels while Kansas City noted that firms are still trying to trim inventories. Reports about new orders were mixed. Richmond noted an increase in new orders, and some manufacturers in the New York District have seen an improvement, but new orders were weak or declining in Boston and Philadelphia. Orders for defense goods in St. Louis and for oil field machinery in Dallas were reported to be down. Philadelphia and Richmond said that, on balance, manufacturers expect improvement over the next six months. Boston, however, noted concern about renewed softness. Real Estate and Construction Reports on housing were also mixed. New York, St. Louis, and Kansas City reported some increase in home sales, and Atlanta and Minneapolis reported mixed conditions with increases in some parts of their districts and declines in other parts. Richmond said that housing markets in the district are sluggish. Likewise, San Francisco reported that home sales in California and the Pacific Northwest, which had rebounded earlier in the year, were now sluggish. New home construction is still slow in those districts that mentioned it. In the commercial leasing market, the New York District said rents were still falling, and San Francisco reported plummeting commercial rental rates in the Los Angeles market. Agriculture and Natural Resources In the agricultural sector, expected yields compared to last year vary by crop, but prices generally remain low. Drier than normal weather has reduced yields for corn according to several district reports. The Chicago District added that corn yields, although lower than last year, are turning out to be much better than earlier estimates. In the Dallas District and in parts of the Minneapolis District, excessive precipitation hurt crop production although yields are still good. In North Dakota, corn and dry bean yields are sharply higher than last year; in the Richmond District they are slightly lower. The wheat crop forecast for Montana is the highest in many years. Prices for many crops, livestock, and dairy products are weak. San Francisco reported that high production of fruits and vegetables in California's Central Valley has lowered prices for those products. Low natural gas prices have reduced drilling activity in the Kansas City and Dallas districts. Dallas also reported that some energy firms have announced layoffs. Finance In general, loan demand has been weak. Overall demand has decreased in the New York District, and total loan volume continued to decline in Philadelphia. In Kansas City demand for commercial and industrial loans is down, and demand remains soft in Chicago. New York and San Francisco specifically mentioned that consumer loan demand was sluggish. Atlanta, on the other hand, reported moderate improvement in loan demand in September. And in the last two months, total loans outstanding have increased in the St. Louis District. A number of districts have experienced increased demand for mortgage loans, especially refinancings spurred by lower interest rates. Several districts reported that the majority of banks have not raised credit standards in the past few months. Cleveland noted that some banks appear to be less aggressive in seeking loans.