Summary Economic conditions are improving very slowly in much of the Twelfth District, with moderate growth in intermountain areas offset by weakness in California. Retail and auto sales are reported soft in several markets, and continued layoffs are reported in defense-related manufacturing. Nonresidential construction remains weak in most District markets, although residential construction and home sales show some pick-up. Mortgage refinancing activity appears to have peaked, and overall loan demand remains flat. Continued drought threatens agriculture in Idaho and eastern Oregon, while prospects for California have improved with recent rainfall. Wage and price increases are modest, with some exceptions such as lumber and health care. Business Sentiment Economic expectations of Twelfth District business leaders were little changed since our last report, with most respondents expecting sluggish growth. As in March, almost two-thirds of respondents expect the economy to expand, but at a rate below 2.5 percent. Only 5 percent of respondents expect output to decline in at least two of the next four quarters, down slightly from 9 percent in March. Expectations are most optimistic for housing starts. A large majority of respondents expect inflation to decline or remain stable. Wages and Prices Contacts report little upward pressure on wages and prices in most District markets, although lumber and health care are notable exceptions. Wholesale lumber prices have risen to record levels due to extremely tight supply conditions associated with harvesting restrictions and the recently adopted tariff on Canadian lumber. Health plan costs are expected to increase at double-digit rates in 1992, but the rate of increase does appear to have moderated somewhat from last year. Energy prices remain low. One oil industry contact expects several years of little or no price growth. Retail Trade and Services Contacts report retail and auto sales as soft in most District markets. Sales of new cars in Utah are reported to be "spotty", with buyer confidence affected by recent layoff announcements. A contact in Idaho reports some deterioration in auto sales since the last report, with traffic down 20 percent since mid-March. In contrast, auto dealers in Oregon report that after an extremely weak February, auto sales improved in March. Auto sales in the Puget Sound area also were above their year-earlier level in March. Contacts from large department stores report generally soft conditions. Sips of improved retail activity, however, are reported in Arizona following weakness early in the year, with auto, eating and drinking establishments, and general merchandising sales leading the way. District-wide food store sales are reported flat. In southern California, the slump in ad revenue and circulation has claimed one of only two daily Spanish-language newspapers in Los Angeles. One media contact reports that employment and real estate ads are down 11 and 19 percent, respectively, from their weak year- earlier levels. Auto advertising, however, shows an increase of 9 percent over the previous year. Circulation and help wanted advertisements in Oregon and the Puget Sound area have begun to show modest gains. Manufacturing Job losses continue to be reported in defense-related manufacturing firms across the District. Arizona manufacturing had significant losses in February, principally in aircraft and missiles. Defense- related manufacturing has fallen in Utah as well. The Boeing company has estimated that employment will be reduced by 6,500 during 1992, reflecting the cutbacks in defense and a slowing of the 737 production line. Orders continue to climb for Boeing 777s, however, which are scheduled to enter passenger serve in mid-1995. Some nondefense manufacturers in Utah, however, are reporting a leveling off of the long slowdown in orders. While large job orders are still down, an upturn in small orders is having a leveling effect on the total volume of sales. Medical equipment manufacturers also are reporting an apparent leveling off in their sales slide of the past six months. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Parts of Idaho and eastern Oregon are suffering one of their worst drought years on record. Crop shortages are possible in potatoes, beans, sugar beets, and alfalfa, and utility costs are expected to rise. Prospects for crops in California have improved due to recent rainfall. Low ocean salmon counts-in part due to the drought-are causing severe curtailment of the 1992 ocean commercial and sport salmon fishing season. Supply conditions in lumber remain extremely tight due to environmental restrictions. In the last 30 days, however, there has been some softening of demand for wood products, and inventory levels have increased at the distribution and mill levels. Construction and Real Estate While home sales and residential construction activity are reported up in most District markets, prospects for nonresidential construction continue to look weak. In Hawaii, for the first time in years, construction employment is declining, in part reflecting a drop in Japanese investment. In Washington, government construction spending is off substantially, and Boeing's major facilities program appears to be slowing with construction schedules for projects being extended. Recent mergers of financial institutions are expected to put further upward pressure on vacancy rates in several District markets. Financial Institutions Demand for loans is reported to be weak to moderate in most District markets. Applications for mortgage refinancing in Utah have tapered off since January. Several southern California bankers are beginning to see real estate values affecting small business credit availability, since real estate holdings remain a primary source of collateral for small business loans. Nonperforming loans are reported to continue increasing modestly.