Summary Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to expand in recent weeks, with some sectors appearing to gain momentum. Retail sales moved higher, and several industry contacts offered more optimistic interpretations of sales trends than they did earlier in the year. The recent flood in downtown Chicago resulted in lost sales and substantial property damage for area businesses. Reports from auto dealers were mixed but generally positive, and auto suppliers expect little revision in auto production schedules for the second quarter. Purchasing managers' surveys and reports from manufacturers indicated a continued upward trend in industrial activity. Commercial lending activity in the District was mixed; previous reports had been more uniformly indicative of sluggish credit markets. Retail Sales Retail sales activity in the District continued to improve in recent weeks, with several retailers indicating that sales in the Midwest outperformed the national average. A large national retailer reported a year-over-year sales gain in March despite the lack of the Easter holiday in this year's results, and noted that sales of durable goods (which are less sensitive to Easter spending patterns) posted a double-digit increase. A retailer specializing in women's apparel stated that sales exceeded plan in March, and business was especially brisk (and above plan) in the first half of April. Another large retailer stated that apparel sales strengthened in early April, joining continued solid gains in sales of home furnishings that developed beginning in the first quarter. A large discount retailer reported sales of small appliances and home furnishings have been particularly robust in most Midwest markets in recent months. Reports from other businesses related to the retailing industry reinforced a picture of improving conditions in this sector of the District economy. However, the recent flood in downtown Chicago resulted in significant property damage and lost output for area businesses. Retailers reported significant losses from damaged inventory and curtailed store hours, although much of the retail sales lost in the downtown area were shifted to other local and suburban stores. A regional analyst noted that other offsetting effects are expected to include higher levels of construction employment in the downtown area. Motor Vehicles Auto industry contacts indicated some improvement in the motor vehicle market in March and early April, especially in the light truck segment. Using its own seasonal adjustment factors, a large automaker reported that industrywide sales of light vehicles increased in February and March, and expected a solid gain in the second quarter. An owner of several rental car franchises noted that rental frequency started to improve in March, then increased dramatically in April. An auto dealer in downstate Illinois reported that sales increased sharply in early April, after a normal seasonal pickup in sales failed to materialize in March. This contact noted that the April gains came in spite of increasing tension during the Caterpillar-UAW negotiations, and that the recent progress in resolving the dispute has begun to relieve tension among area consumers. However, a large auto dealer based in Southeast Michigan stated that a sales upturn started in March but dissipated in April, noting that consumer uncertainty had risen following new auto industry restructuring announcements. On the production side, a large supplier to the auto industry stated that "automakers are acting as if second quarter is sacred," and noted that schedules for at least one large automaker are more likely to be revised upward than downward. A supplier linked to light truck production reported that shipments in March and April were sharply higher than a year ago. In March, heavy-duty truck order backlogs reached their highest level since early 1990, according to an industry analyst, although build rates have not yet shown similar improvement Still, the orders received by a truck engine manufacturer indicated that a heightened level of activity held through April. Manufacturing Surveys and contact reports suggested continued upward movement in industrial activity in the Seventh District. The Chicago purchasing managers' survey (seasonally adjusted) indicated expansion at a somewhat faster pace in April, and the employment component of the survey reached a level above 50 percent for the first time since June 1990. Reflecting the slow improvement indicated by reports from the auto industry, the Detroit purchasing managers' survey (also seasonally adjusted) indicated expansion in manufacturing activity in both February and March. Surveys conducted in Western Michigan and Southwest Wisconsin continued to post solid results in March. A steel producer reported that it has become more optimistic about industry conditions than it has been over the past 18 months, citing a noticeable improvement in orders. Machinery orders received by a large manufacturer of heavy equipment continued to post solid year- over-year gains through March, although much of the strength came from large individual orders from overseas. New strengthening in expected shipments was reported by a boiler manufacturer, as customer orders were again being released after postponements in 1991. This firm views the Midwest as its strongest market A manufacturer of office furniture delayed a planned layoff after some strengthening in orders. An appliance manufacturer stated that retailers' orders have improved in recent weeks, "but they don't seem to be ordering for the back room yet." A machine tool manufacturer expecting a solid sales gain in 1992 reported that orders haven't accelerated in recent weeks, noting that customers' capital spending on its products showed little sensitivity to the business downturn experienced in 1990 and 1991. Real Estate/Construction Continued strength in housing activity was joined by scattered signs of increased commercial construction. A large realtor reported that residential transactions (primarily for home resales) continued to run at record levels through March and early April, while commercial sales and leasing activity remain slow. At the same time, this contact stated that on the commercial side "we are seeing some light at the end of the tunnel for the first time in 6 to 8 months," as institutional investors have begun to indicate some willingness to consider financing new projects. A large contractor who had been expecting no new commercial construction in his market area reported some unexpected activity had arisen in recent months. Several financial institutions reported higher levels of activity in the residential real estate market m the Detroit area. An association of construction contractors specializing in homebuilding and small commercial projects throughout Wisconsin reported that the recent recession had little impact on construction activity among its membership, and activity is now improving along a normal seasonal pattern. The association itself recently broke ground on a new headquarters facility in order to accommodate the need for new space. A large cement producer reported that higher levels of bidding for small industrial construction projects joined increased public works activity in March and April. Banking Reports from borrowers and lenders on commercial lending in recent weeks were mixed, after more uniform indications of sluggish credit markets in previous reports. A large commercial bank reported that its lending department has been marketing more aggressively in recent weeks. Much of the new lending that has arisen has been in the residential mortgage area, although the bank has also emphasized lending to manufacturers. A middle market lender reported sluggish demand for commercial loans financing plant or equipment expansion. On the other hand, a law firm reported that its commercial loan documentation business quickened in recent months, and the nature of the work indicated that banks were making more, and bigger, new loans to businesses. Separately, a large bank reported that its commercial lending (outside of real estate) has increased over the past few months. A large construction contractor stated that its banking contacts have indicated a greater willingness to lend in recent weeks.