Summary The District economy continues to recover. In recent weeks, several manufacturing firms announced plans to increase employment and expand production facilities. Residential construction activity is being spurred by low interest rates and good weather. District loan demand has increased slightly. Preliminary estimates indicate increased acreage for most District crops. Manufacturing District manufacturing employment has shown signs of increasing, as positive reports from firms continue to outpace negative reports. Topping the list, a major automaker plans to spend $650 million to expand its Louisville plant and add 1,400 new employees by summer 1993. Northeast Arkansas continues to grow as a major steel center with the announcement of plant openings by two firms by January; combined, they will hire about 300 workers. Arkansas also will award approximately $35 million in additional highway contracts this year, an increase that is expected to generate a significant number of jobs. A construction equipment manufacturer will add 150 jobs at its new worldwide distribution facility in Tennessee. A major Louisville oil refinery intends to hire an additional 100 persons as part of its expansion. In Arkansas, an aluminum products maker reports an increase in overtime to meet demand, and a school bus manufacturer recalled several hundred employees to resume full production. Despite the recovery, layoffs and closings continue to occur throughout the District. A food producing plant in Evansville, Indiana, announced its closing within the next year, eliminating 300 jobs. A St. Louis defense contractor laid off another 155 workers after cuts of more than 11,000 in the last one and one-half years. A maker of bathtubs and sinks, employing 345 workers, is closing its Louisville factory by year's end because of dwindling product demand. An Arkansas plastics company closed last month, eliminating more than 200 jobs. Because of bankruptcy by some of its major customers and its own heavy indebtedness, a children's clothing manufacturer in Kentucky will close in June and eliminate 310 jobs. The effects of this closure may be more than offset, however, by this winter's opening of a cookie and cracker maker in the same town bringing 500 jobs. Nonmanufacturing District nonmanufacturing employment has grown steadily in recent months, and reports indicate continued expansion. A St. Louis construction company's contract to build housing in Israel recently was doubled to $100 million. A mortgage company intends to hire about 100 Louisville workers this year rather than the original estimate of 75. Health services continued to grow in St. Louis, with 400 new positions added in February. In Louisville, however, a health organization plans to reduce costs by cutting 275 jobs from three of its hospitals. Construction and Real Estate Residential construction activity continues to improve from its year-ago level. Favorable weather and low interest rates have provided most of the recent stimulus. Most builders believe, however, that the current pace of activity cannot be sustained; nevertheless, they believe 1992 will be a good year for the industry, especially when compared with the two previous years. While some builders still report difficulty in obtaining construction financing, others report credit is easier to obtain now than it was a year ago. In Memphis, builders note that "trade up" buyers are beginning to return to the market; earlier in the year, most new home sales were to first-time homebuyers. Builders also report that new home prices have begun to rise because of a combination of increased demand and record lumber prices. Banking and Finance Loan demand appears to be on the upswing. Total loans outstanding increased 0.8 percent at large District banks from mid-February to mid-April, while rising 1.2 percent at a sample of small and mid- sized District banks. All major categories of loans, real estate, consumer and business, showed increases at large banks during the period, and all categories but consumer loans, which declined 0.1 percent, rose at the small and mid-sized banks. Agriculture and Natural Resources Early reports indicate that District farmers intend to increase planted acreage this year for corn, rice, sorghum and, to a lesser extent, cotton, but decrease acres for soybeans. Except for the northern parts of the District, the winter wheat crop is mostly in fair-to-good condition. Soil moisture is generally adequate, with spring planting proceeding normally in most areas. A major fertilizer producer in the District reports greater demand, citing increased national corn acreage and increased exports to the former Soviet Union. An informal survey of District agricultural lenders suggests that operating loan demand is virtually flat compared with last year. Despite initial concern., the March freeze resulted only in minor damage to most of the District's fruit and vegetable crops. Year-to-date District coal production is down about 6 percent from a year earlier.