According to contacts across the country, economic activity has increased further since the last survey although conditions remain uneven across regions and sectors. The Chicago, Atlanta, Richmond, and Cleveland districts report noticeable improvement, while the Dallas, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Minneapolis districts report continued moderate rates of economic expansion. The San Francisco, New York, Boston and Philadelphia districts report continued sluggish economic activity. These districts, however, report either slightly improved conditions or increased optimism about the near- term outlook. Manufacturing activity has picked up in most regions of the country. Continued growth in residential construction has been widespread. Many districts report gains in retail sales. Several regions, however, report continued declines in commercial construction, energy extraction and defense manufacturing. While the demand for non-mortgage loans generally is reported as weak, there has been some pickup in demand for these loans in several regions. Producer and consumer prices are reported as generally stable. Retail Retail sales have increased in most regions and many districts report improved optimism about future sales. Sales of most product lines have improved. The Chicago and Richmond districts note particular strength in consumer durables such as home furnishings and appliances. Several other districts note gains in nondurables. Retail respondents in the Chicago area note that much of the lost sales due to recent flooding downtown was made up by increased sales in the surrounding areas. Auto sales have increased in many areas. The most notable exception to improved retail sales is found in the Philadelphia district which reported a recent decline in sales. The San Francisco, New York and Boston districts report mixed retail performance. Manufacturing The most significant change since the last Beige Book survey appears to have occurred in the manufacturing sector. While respondents in the last survey generally described the manufacturing sector as weak, respondents have been significantly more upbeat recently. The Chicago and Cleveland districts report some improvement in motor vehicle and steel production and pronounced gains in orders for capital goods such as machinery and electrical equipment. Respondents in the Richmond district note strong increases in shipments and orders across many industries. Respondents in the Atlanta and Dallas districts report strong gains in manufacturing industries tied to residential construction and moderate gains in industries such as apparel, paper and electronics. However, the manufacturing gains in the Dallas district have been offset somewhat by continued declines in energy-related industries such as oil field equipment. The San Francisco and Boston districts note continued weakness in defense-related manufacturing. Construction Residential construction has continued to increase in most districts although the rate of growth appears to have slowed. The San Francisco district reports widespread gains in residential construction; the New York district reports increased optimism from home builders; and the Philadelphia district reports an overall slight increase in home construction. Several districts report increased pressure on home prices partly due to sharp increases in the cost of lumber. Respondents report that lumber prices have increased because of a sharp rise in lumber demand, harvesting restrictions and a recent trade levy on Canadian lumber. Commercial construction remains weak in most markets. Services Tourism and convention activity is increasing in the Atlanta, Dallas, Minneapolis and Richmond districts. Respondents in the San Francisco district report continued weakness in newspaper advertising revenue, due partly to low levels of real estate advertising. Residential real estate brokerage activity is reported to have increased in most markets across the country. The Dallas district reports that the demand for legal and litigation services remains strong and that accounting and consulting firms are seeing an increase in demand from companies seeking to increase productivity. Agriculture and Energy Extraction Several districts report favorable agricultural conditions although extreme weather has slowed planting in some areas of the county. Kansas City and St. Louis report that the winter wheat crop is in mostly good condition. Agricultural prices have generally declined. Although cattle prices remain at very high levels, Kansas City reports that cattle feeders remain wary that sluggish consumer demand for beef could trigger another drop in prices later this summer. Several districts report ample liquidity for agricultural lending. The energy sector continues to decline. Oil and natural gas prices remain at low levels, and the drilling rig count continues to fall. Oil and gas industry respondents in the Atlanta district report that business activity continues to decline and that further layoffs are likely over the next few months. St. Louis reports that year-to-date coal production has declined about 6 percent from a year earlier. Bank Lending Bankers in several regions report that loan demand has begun to increase, although demand remains uneven. Most banks across the country report an increase in mortgage originations and a slowdown in mortgage refinancings. Most regions continue to report soft demand for non-mortgage loans. The Richmond, Dallas and St. Louis districts report increases in non-mortgage loans. Boston reports that some small businesses continue to have difficulty obtaining bank credit, but contacts have found satisfactory alternatives, particularly trade credit from suppliers. Prices Producer and consumer prices are generally reported as stable. Boston reports that manufacturing prices are flat to down and that retailers are feeling pressure to lower prices. The San Francisco district reports little upward pressure on prices, with the exception of lumber and health care. Atlanta reports that while most contacts report relatively stable input prices, a growing minority of factory contacts are reporting increasing material prices. Respondents in the Kansas City district also note stable material prices, but prices are expected to rise slightly over the next few months.