Overview Economic activity in the District apparently picked up steam in the last several weeks. Retail activity, including sales of big ticket items, rose broadly. Manufacturing activity also posted strong gains, as evidenced particularly by increased production and new orders. In the financial sector, loan demand rose and institutions caught up with home refinancing applications made earlier in the year. Home sales and prices strengthened. Commercial leasing activity rose, although the amount of square footage absorbed was apparently not large. In agriculture, good weather benefited spring planting, and agricultural bankers had ample funds to lend. Consumer Spending Our regular mail survey indicated that District retail activity continued to improve in late March and early April. Retailers reported increases in most indicators of activity, including sales of big ticket items. Retailer inventories and capital expenditures were unchanged from the previous month. Survey respondents were optimistic about their prospects for business in the next six months. They anticipated that retail activity, particularly sales and shopper traffic, would increase. Manufacturing Manufacturers indicated that District factory activity and business conditions improved considerably in recent weeks. Respondents reported strong increases in shipments and new orders and said that most other indicators of activity rose as well. Producer inventories of raw materials were little changed, and finished goods inventories apparently declined somewhat. Manufacturers noted steady to stronger overall business conditions this month compared to last month, nationally as well as in their local areas. Respondents remained optimistic about their business prospects in the next six months. They expected increases in every indicator of activity except inventories, which they anticipated would be flat, and they anticipated further strengthening in general business conditions. Ports Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), reported that the volumes of exports were lower and imports were generally higher in March than in February. Compared with a year ago, both export and import volumes were lower. Over the next six months export activity is expected to increase faster than import activity at the Port of Charleston, while exports and imports are expected to rise at about the same rates at Baltimore and Hampton Roads. Tourism Hotels, motels and resorts throughout the District reported increases in the numbers and spending activity of tourists and convention attendees in recent weeks. Several respondents attributed the recent increases to the late Easter weekend and good weather, but others were optimistic that business would be strong in the months ahead. They noted that their convention and tourist bookings for the rest of the spring and summer were above last year's bookings. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that credit conditions generally improved over the last eight weeks. Respondents noted that rates on commercial loans moved lower and that both commercial and consumer loan demand strengthened. Bank respondents reported that the demand for home mortgages slowed as mortgage rates moved up in late March. The slowdown, they said, allowed them to catch up with the surge in home mortgage refinancing applications that occurred earlier in the year. Some bankers pointed to a second, smaller surge in refinancing activity in recent weeks as rates drifted lower. Real Estate Activity in both residential and commercial real estate apparently picked up in recent weeks. Real estate analysts and home builders contacted by telephone reported a moderate increase in residential sales and in housing starts in the first three weeks of April. The prices of new and existing homes rose slightly in many areas in the District, with some upward pressure on new home prices said to be due to rising lumber costs. Commercial real estate leasing activity improved in most urban areas in the District. Some respondents reported that potential lessees in their areas were shopping mainly for relatively small blocks of retail or office space. Agriculture Agricultural analysts and bankers in the District reported favorable conditions for spring planting and for financing farm activity. Analysts said that abnormally mild weather during the first half of April had allowed District farmers to begin spring planting ahead of schedule, but recent heavy rains in Virginia and North Carolina may have slowed planting progress somewhat in those states. A late frost in the Carolinas apparently damaged the peach crop, possibly reducing prospective yields by as much as 20 percent. Preliminary responses to a quarterly survey of District agricultural bankers indicated that farm credit conditions were steady in late March. The survey showed stable loan demand, greater-than-usual funds availability, and falling rates on farm loans.