Overview The Tenth District economy appears to be growing slowly. Retail sales continue to improve, housing starts remain strong, and auto sales continue to inch upward. Activity in the energy sector remains depressed, however, and higher cattle prices have only slightly brightened expectations for the farm sector. Most retailers are adding to inventories, but some manufacturers are still cutting back on stocks of materials and other inputs. Prices for retail goods and manufacturers' inputs generally remain stable. Retail Sales Retail sales increased over the last month, and most retailers expect continued improvement over the rest of the year. Prices are the same or lower than a year ago. Retailers generally expect prices to remain stable over the rest of the year. While most retailers are satisfied with their current inventory levels, they plan to increase inventory purchases in the coming months. Auto sales increased slightly in most district states over the last month. Financing is generally available for inventories, and potential buyers are generally able to obtain loans. Most automobile dealers continue to expand inventories in anticipation of further increases in sales in the next few months. Manufacturing Most purchasing agents report virtually no change in input prices over the past month, continuing the trend of relatively stable prices over the past year. Prices are expected to rise slightly over the next few months. Most firms are able to obtain materials without difficulty, although some agents have noticed slightly longer lead times, While some firms are expanding inventories, others are trimming them. Energy Soft prices for oil and natural gas continue to depress energy activity in the district. The average number of drilling rigs operating in district states slipped from 198 in February to 194 in March. The March rig count was nearly 25 percent below its level of a year ago and very near the low levels reached during the energy bust in 1986. Housing Housing starts across the district are much higher than a year ago. Builders expect further increases during the second quarter before starts reach a steady level. New home sales have jumped sharply from a year ago, while inventories continue to drop. Mortgage demand is strong and is expected to remain strong, although mortgage rates are expected to stay relatively constant over the rest of the year. While the price of lumber is sharply higher than a year ago, the prices of other building materials have risen only slightly. Builders expect lumber prices to continue climbing but foresee no difficulty obtaining materials. Due partly to the lumber price increases, new home prices are up sharply from a year ago. Banking Loan-deposit ratios at most reporting banks were down slightly or the same as last month, with loan demand generally mixed. Most bankers report greater demand for home mortgages and construction loans, and greater or constant demand for consumer loans. Demand for home equity loans at most banks was constant. Demand for commercial and industrial loans was constant or down, while demand for commercial real estate loans and agricultural loans at nearly all banks was down. The level of investments at nearly all banks was up. Deposits were up or constant at most banks over the last month. Demand deposits were mostly up, while NOW, super-NOW, and money market deposit accounts were mostly up or constant. At most banks, IRA and Keogh accounts and small time and savings deposits were constant. At nearly all banks large CDs were down. Nearly half the banks expect to lower their prime rate in the near term. Several banks lowered consumer lending rates last month, and a few banks expect to lower rates in the near term. Most banks, however, report unchanged consumer lending rates with no change expected in the near term. A small number of banks report tightening their lending standards in the last month. Agriculture Winter wheat yields are expected to be normal in most of the district, although the condition of the crop varies widely. In some areas, the crop is in excellent condition following timely spring rains. But in other areas, the crop is in poor condition after a late spring cold snap. At the same time, wet field conditions have slowed the planting of spring crops. Cattle prices have rebounded to near record levels after falling sharply last year. Still, cattle feeders remain wary that sluggish consumer demand could trigger another drop in prices later this summer. Thus, many feedlots are operating below capacity and carefully avoiding a buildup of fed cattle inventories. After steady gains in recent years, farmland prices this spring are generally unchanged from a year ago. In most of the district, last year's dip in farm incomes appears to have taken the steam out of the farmland market. But farm rents have edged up in isolated areas, suggesting some possible gains in farmland prices.