Overview Contacts around the Sixth District continue to be more upbeat in their assessment of economic conditions. Retailers noted slightly higher sales in April, even after adjusting for a late Easter. Auto dealers also reported modest sales gains. A majority of manufacturers observed increased orders and production. Single-family home sales and new home starts continued to improve. However, bankers reported that commercial and industrial loan demand is spotty. Prices and wages are generally steady, but a growing minority of factories reported increasing prices of material inputs. Consumer Spending The late Easter holiday creates some difficulty in comparing year- over-year results, but most retailers believed sales improved through mid-April even after adjustment for this distortion. Gains were concentrated in nondurables such as apparel, but several department store contacts again noted stronger spending on furniture and other home furnishings. Several district auto dealers reported modest sales increases, a clear improvement over March. However, retailers remain generally cautious in placing new orders. Business at a major wholesale apparel market was described as disappointing. Most retailers are waiting for a significant and sustained recovery in sales before increasing their buying substantially. Convention bookings and tourism in the region continue to improve. Gains are particularly strong in international travel to Florida. Manufacturing Most manufacturing contacts reported gains in new orders and production. Carpet makers are now seeing increased orders from residential builders; however, commercial sales remain weak because of stagnant commercial building. Some producers of sportswear reported strengthening orders and rising production employment. At least one apparel company is currently building inventories in expectation of increased demand. Several paper and packaging producers have seen increases in orders and shipments. Electronics producers noted improved sales. In contrast, energy extraction industries reported very discouraging conditions. Oil and gas company contacts say that business activity continues to decline and that further layoffs are likely over the next few months. Construction Most realtors reported continued improvement in housing market activity during March and early April. However, several noted that home buyers are interest-rate sensitive and traffic is responding to changes in mortgage rates. Momentum is now said to be building in the trade-up market. Resale inventories are reportedly adequate as more people place their homes for sale in recognition of improved market conditions. Since supply has increased with demand, few realtors report any notable increase in home prices. New home inventories are generally declining. Consistent with this observation, most builders reported increased single-family construction. Several expressed concern that increased lumber costs are constraining profit margins which could potentially weaken the pace of building. While several commercial realtors reported that the market has yet to hit bottom, others are noting some positive signs in leasing activity and absorption. Spotty improvement in net absorption has yet to generate a recovery in commercial development. Most new construction has been limited to owner-occupied or built-to-suit structures. Financial Services Loan demand in the region was generally unchanged from March to April. No clear upward trend has emerged, either by type of loan, or state. Refinancing of both mortgage and business loans continues to represent a large portion of total activity. Loan portfolios are stabilizing in size after persistent contraction last year. Most banking contacts report a mood of cautious optimism among businesses in their communities. Wages and Prices Most contacts report that input prices and wages remain relatively stable. To date, intense competitive pressures are restraining attempts to raise finished goods prices. However, after a year in which input price weakness was the rule, a growing minority of factory contacts are reporting some firming of industrial materials prices.