Summary Weakness in California continues to hold down overall District economic activity, but generally favorable conditions are reported in most other District states. In California, job cutbacks in aerospace and defense-related manufacturing are combining with recently proposed military base closings to hurt consumer confidence and economic activity in many areas. Conditions remain sluggish in the state across a broad range of industries. Layoffs in aerospace also are slowing growth in western Washington. Outside of these regions, growth is reported in several sectors, with the strongest conditions reported in eastern Washington, Utah, and Idaho. Overall business sentiment was little changed from our last report but remains generally favorable, and recent rains have improved District agricultural prospects. Business Sentiment Sentiment among Twelfth District business leaders, which had improved steadily since the last half of 1992, is showing some signs of leveling off. Two-thirds of our respondents now expect the real economy to expand during the next four quarters at a rate of at least 2.5 percent. This proportion is down from three-quarters in March but up from one-half in January and one-third in November. In general, contacts from Idaho, Oregon, and Utah expect their regions to perform slightly better than the national average. Most contacts in California and Washington, however, expect their region to underperform the national average. Retail Trade and Services Consumer sentiment remains weak in California, with several contacts reporting that concern over job security is negatively affecting consumer spending. One national retailer reports that retail sales are continuing soft; April looks slightly better than March, but the West Coast trend is definitely softer than in the Midwest or East Coast. Contacts in California report that small retail and service establishments near military bases are nervous about their long-term prospects. The visitor industry in southern California is reported to be depressed. In northern California, a contact reports that layoffs are continuing in the legal services industry. Somewhat stronger conditions are reported in most other District markets, with consumer confidence noticeably more robust than in California. Contacts report stable or strengthening conditions in Idaho, Utah, and Oregon. In Idaho, for example, new vehicle registrations during March were up 26 percent over a year earlier. In Washington, however, consumer confidence is reported down due to aerospace cutbacks, adversely affecting retail trade and sales. A contact in the Washington legal industry also reports weak conditions. A contact in eastern Washington, however, reports that the region is benefiting from increased federal spending on nuclear cleanup projects. Manufacturing Cutbacks in aerospace and defense continue to dampen District manufacturing activity-particularly in California and Washington. Most recently, a major defense manufacturer announced the further consolidation of production activity from several sites in southern California to Tucson. The move will result in the transfer of 2,000 workers by the end of next year and ultimately eliminate more than 6,000 jobs company-wide. In Washington, cutbacks at Boeing are proceeding. Newly announced airplane orders from China, however, are partially offsetting weak demand from domestic airlines. A contact in the aluminum industry reports high inventories and soft prices of aluminum, due to both weak demand and increased supply from Russia. Stronger conditions exist in other sectors. A contact from Silicon Valley reports that orders are strong in several segments of the electronics industry, although there are signs that the peak in growth rates may be past. Contacts from Idaho and Utah report both strong demand and tightening inventories for heavy and construction equipment. No major delivery problems are reported, however. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Recent precipitation has improved prospects for irrigation water in several states. Grazing conditions are reported excellent, and livestock conditions are good. Prices are reported strong for cattle and several other agricultural products. Capacity constraints have eased in lumber and plywood, with lumber price dropping 20 percent from the March peak. Construction and Real Estate District nonresidential real estate and construction shows some signs of bottoming out, although activity remains depressed in several markets. A contact in southern California reports little change in conditions, with commercial construction activity down nearly 50 percent from three years ago. In northern California, a contact reports that rents have stabilized, and that commercial real estate prices should be at or near the bottom. In Utah, the overall office vacancy dropped from 21 percent to 16 percent in the Salt Lake City market, showing considerable absorption over the past year. The residential sector is showing more strength. Home building in southern Arizona is reported very strong, in part due to the shift of aerospace jobs from southern California to Tucson. Contacts also report that Utah and Idaho are experiencing a continued boom in residential construction and sales. Some shortage of lumber and construction labor is noted. In California, contacts report some pick up in real estate activity due to lower interest rates and decreased home prices. Financial Institutions Mixed conditions are reported across District financial markets. In California, contacts report continued weak loan demand. A contact in Washington reports a sharp drop in commercial and agricultural loan requests in the last two quarters. In contrast, contacts report that the banking industry in Arizona continues to show significant improvement and that conditions in Utah remain strong. In Oregon, a contact reports increased demand for credit during March and strong profits.