Summary District business activity continues to expand, but with apparently greater growth in production than in consumption. Retail sales increased at a much slower pace in March and April than in the previous two months, particularly for automobiles and apparel. Severe weather in mid-March contributed to the mediocre performance, but retailers also point to consumer caution about the future course of the economy as an underlying factor. Manufacturers continue to report strength in orders, backlogs, and production. Producers of steel, heavy truck components, and many types of capital goods indicate near-capacity operations. Most of the higher production schedules are being met through productivity gains and overtime, but a few respondents report hiring a limited number of additional workers in order to accommodate a rising backlog. Financial institutions cite a moderate increase in overall loan activity, mostly as a result of refinancing both home mortgages and existing business loans. Consumer Spending Fourth District retailers report that sales growth has fallen off the pace set during the first two months of the year. Traffic in March and April has been relatively slow for this time of year, and sales have been flat. Many respondents blame unseasonable weather, pointing specifically to the mid-March blizzard. Even the positive influence of an early Easter could not offset the storm's devastating effects on consumer spending. While most retailers agree that better weather will revive consumer activity, they still express concern that consumer confidence may remain subdued by the slow pace of the areas economic recovery. The lackluster sale of big-ticket items, such as motor vehicles, reflects consumers' caution. Even with low interest rates and ample credit available, dealers expect a modest 5 percent year-over-year improvement during the remainder of the all-important spring selling season. Apparel retailers mention that they may discount spring/summer seasonal items a little earlier than usual, but most respondents are comfortable with their current inventory levels. Manufacturing A growing number of manufacturers report new orders and backlogs. They uniformly estimate further increases in production this quarter over last and believe that they have ample capacity to accommodate higher production schedules. Some of the tightest conditions are reported by the steel industry: Operating rates range between the low 80s for some specialty producers and near capacity for producers of flat rolled steel. The high operating rates and full order books have sustained a general price increase for many steel items. However, some producers report that orders for future delivery have slowed in recent weeks, making further price increases less likely. Producers of truck components also report near-capacity operations, as new orders in March again exceeded expectations. Backlogs continue to climb rapidly, and heavy-duty truck production for 1993 now appears to be running at a rate close to the previous peak year in 1988. Stronger-than-expected demand for some automobile and light truck models and options has strained capacity and created bottlenecks at a few Big Three parts and assembly plants. Producers of capital goods and special industrial and telecommunications equipment also cite better-than-expected orders and backlogs last quarter. For example, a manufacturer of equipment for depository institutions reports sizable increases in orders so far this year relative to last year, resulting in an additional shift at one plant. Some consumer goods producers also note a step- up in sales and production since late 1992. Sales of vacuum cleaners rose at a double-digit rate last quarter, and output of major household appliances held at about the previous quarter's level. For machine tools, however, orders continue on an irregularly rising trend because of further weakness in the aerospace and commercial aircraft industries. Employment Manufacturers in the District continue to stress that they can meet rising production schedules over the next several months without resorting to significant employment increases. Despite higher backlogs and operating rates at the end of last quarter, producers of truck components, depository institution equipment, industrial supplies, and steel expect few, if any, new hires or employee recalls. Some believe that their higher production schedules can be met through productivity gains and overtime, and a few are relying on outside contractors. Several producers emphasize that their long- term goal continues to be greater productivity per unit of sales and output and are cautious about hiring in response to short-run rises in demand, in light of high employee benefits costs. Yet, some respondents report limited gains in payrolls. A capital goods producer, now operating some of its lines at capacity, plans to hire in order to accommodate a rising backlog. In addition, selected auto assembly and parts facilities report hiring additional workers, although they stress that new employment is the last resort after overtime has been exhausted. Retailers expect only replacement hiring at this time, as they anticipate increased productivity and overtime hours to accommodate sales growth in the near term. Financial Developments Rising loan activity continues to be concentrated in home equity and mortgage loans. Several lenders report that the volume of mortgage refinancing is still virtually at capacity, although the pace of increase has leveled off at some banks. A large thrift, however, has experienced what may be another record month for refinancing. For new mortgage loans, a few depositories note a somewhat more than seasonal pickup in April, but most thrifts and banks indicate less than usual strength. Some banks, particularly larger ones, report a slight increase in business loans, which is aided primarily by a strong demand to refinance existing loans. Several large banks state that savings deposits, especially certificates of deposit, fell sharply again in April, with some indicating a bigger decline than in March. A few large and mid-sized thrift institutions, however, report that aggressive pricing and marketing programs have generated growth in their deposits in April.