Summary Recent reports from businesses, trade associations and the results of a variety of surveys indicate that economic expansion slowed in the Seventh District in March and early April, but contacts' expectations for renewed growth in coming weeks were guardedly optimistic. Most retail and housing industry contacts stated that bad weather curtailed sales growth in recent weeks. Little change could be detected in the pace of expansion in manufacturing activity, and manufacturers seemed comfortable with modestly rising inventory levels. Price increases proceeded at a somewhat faster pace in recent months, due at least in part to improvement in demand. Weather conditions have delayed spring plantings. Business Activity Indicators An underlying upward trend in purchasing managers surveys around the District generally remained intact in recent months, although results were increasingly mixed. The overall index for the Chicago survey slipped slightly in March, but remained at a level consistent with expansion in manufacturing activity. The production components of the Milwaukee and Detroit surveys continued to climb in March, and these indicators have reached and exceeded pre-recession levels. Purchasing managers surveys in Western Michigan signaled modest to moderate improvement in March, in line with results for the first two months of the quarter. Led by the auto sector, an index of business activity in the Detroit area rose to a record high in March, and the unemployment rate for the Detroit area has fallen significantly over the last year. An index of business conditions in a purchasing managers' survey in Iowa also continued so climb in the first quarter, reaching its highest level in five years. An informal survey of a variety of small manufacturing, construction, and service firms in the District indicated that respondents were largely upbeat with respect to appraisals of current conditions as well as expectations for future activity, although several firms expressed concern about the recent slump in measures of consumer confidence. Consumption and Housing Most retail and housing industry contacts reported that unrelenting poor weather joined with renewed consumer uncertainty, especially about taxes. to dampen sales in March and early April. Continued gains in retail sales of nonseasonal merchandise and increased activity during breaks in the weather supported their expectations for renewed growth in coming months, however. A large retailer stated that sales growth was held back by concern over potential tax increases, uncertainty about the impact of withholding changes, a payback following aggressive promotion of credit sales in the previous quarter, and "some of the soggiest weather in our history." Sales reportedly surged, however, on several days when the weather broke. This contact also noted that sales of nonseasonal items continued to strengthen in recent months, helping to offset weakness in spring apparel, and sales of furniture and housewares posed a double-digit increase in the first quarter on a same-store basis, reaching a record level. Another large retailer reported that credit utilization continued to rise even though sales slowed in March (on a seasonally adjusted basis), and sales rebounded in April, led by durable goods and apparel. A large shopping center reported that total sales increased (on a year-over-year basis) in March and early April. After a lengthy dormant period for sales of spring merchandise, this contact expected a burst in sales with the first sustained period of nice weather, but noted that it hadn't occurred yet. Reports from bankers indicated that residential mortgage loan demand remained fairly strong, with continued relative strength in refinancing. A large homebuilder, however, expressed some frustration about a loss of momentum in traffic and sales in March, citing a reemergence of political uncertainty in addition to the bad weather. A report from an association of realtors indicated that closings slowed in the first quarter of 1993 on a seasonally adjusted basis, after a large increase in the fourth quarter last year. A report from a large realtor also indicated that transaction volume slowed in March, but activity seemed to pick up some momentum in April. This realtor stated that "the market is still pretty active," citing continued optimistic attitudes among salespeople. Manufacturing Reports from manufacturers and industrial trade associations indicated little change in the steady upward trend in District manufacturing activity, although pockets of weakness remained. Sales of electricity to industrial customers in March were significantly above the year-earlier period, according to one utility, largely due to strength in sales to the auto industry. One automaker reported that production of light trucks has been bumping up against capacity limits. Two producers of molds used in automobile production were experiencing a marked upturn in demand, which was attributed to increased optimism about sales prospects in future model years. An automaker reported that car sales strengthened significantly in the first twenty days of April, after some loss of momentum in March. A bank reported that auto loan volume rose an April, after softening in the first quarter. Among respondents to the purchasing managers' surveys in Western Michigan, above-average strength was reported for producers of capital equipment, and auto parts manufacturers are still doing somewhat better than firms in most other industries. An association of electronics manufacturers reported that orders in the first quarter ran at the highest level in the past five years, and an association of home appliance producers reported a record level of domestic shipments for a variety of products in March. One appliance producer expected a record year for retail sales of appliances (in units) in 1993. Weakness has lingered in several manufacturing sectors in the District, however. A large diversified manufacturer reported that orders for oilfield and airline equipment, which had been weak for some time, fell off significantly further in March. Retail sales of farm equipment in the first quarter were slightly below soft year-earlier levels. New strengthening was evident in one previously weak sector, however, as a large manufacturer of construction equipment reported that sales into commercial construction markets have been rising rapidly in recent months. Prices Prices of a variety of commodities and final products have been increasing at higher rates in recent months, due at least in part to increased demand. The price components of several District purchasing managers' surveys rose in recent months. The director of two purchasing managers' surveys in Western Michigan noted that more commodities were being reported in short supply and rising in price. On the other hand, a large retailer reported that consumer sensitivity to price remains high. A banker stated that inflationary expectations may remain relatively muted, noting that the upturn in plant and equipment spending among borrowers has not been generalized, but specific by industry sector, by companies within industries, and projects within companies. Agriculture A recent survey found that farmers in this District and elsewhere intend to reduce corn acreage moderately this year while holding soybean seedings close to last year's level. The combination of a late harvest last fall and the wet and cool weather conditions of this spring has significantly reduced the amount of fieldwork completed so far for this year's plantings. Developments in the next couple of weeks will be important as the first 10 days of May are generally considered the optimum planting time for most of the District's corn farmers. The delays experienced so far could be quickly overcome with the right weather conditions. Alternatively, continued delays could trigger a shift toward quicker-maturing (but lower-yielding) seeds and/or encourage a shift from corn to soybean acreage. Livestock producers have enjoyed unexpectedly high prices so far this year. In contrast to the continued year-over-year gains expected in red mea production, pork production was down nearly 3 percent in the first quarter while beef production was down nearly 4 percent. The unexpected declines stem partly from slower weight gains due to the poor quality of last year's corn crop and the harsh weather conditions confronting feedlot operators. With USDA reports continuing to show larger inventories of hogs and cattle, most analysts are expecting red meat production will move above year-earlier levels again this spring.