Overview According to Sixth District contacts, the Southeast economy grew at a moderate pace through mid-April, despite minor disruptions caused by unseasonably bad weather. Retailers reported year-over-year increases in consumer spending. Factory activity improved moderately with increased production noted particularly in consumer goods and home building materials. Realtors and home builders continued to see a favorable single-family housing market, and contractors noted some new multifamily projects but said commercial construction is still weak. According to banking contacts, lending activity was up modestly, driven by increases in commercial loans and another wave of home mortgage refinancings. Competition continues to hold prices of intermediate materials and final goods steady, while wage pressures were generally absent. Consumer Spending Despite unseasonably poor weather, retailers in the District generally reported increases in consumer spending through March and into mid-April compared with year-ago levels. Nondurable goods sold well because of Easter holiday shopping, while durable goods sales received a boost from home improvement purchases that rebounded with the better weather in early-April. Auto sales picked up modestly during the last month, and most dealers said they were optimistic about the prospects for continued increases in sales this year. Tourism and business travel continued to strengthen, and early reports indicate that the number of spring break visitors to Florida surpassed year-ago levels. Most contacts in the hospitality industry expect further improvement through the summer as air passenger traffic and convention attendance continue to outpace year-ago levels. Manufacturing District factory activity improved moderately through early-April, led by appliance, furniture, carpet, and building materials manufacturers who continue to benefit from regional and national increases in home building and renovation. Increasing backlogs of orders were reported by producers of plywood and textiles, with some plants running at full capacity. Utilities around the District saw modest gains in new residential customers and higher sales to existing industrial users. Although production levels generally have been increasing, relatively few firms have reported hiring new employees, instead choosing to extend the hours worked by current staffs. While increases in manufacturers' shipments and new orders were reported across a broad range of industries, many defense- related contractors are still faced with declining backlogs of orders and few new prospects. Construction Real estate agents across the District noted that home sales were at or above strong year-ago levels. Improved sales were observed in all price ranges, including the luxury market which previously had been very slow. Contacts expressed optimism about the remaining spring sales period, but were more cautious in their assessment of longer term prospects. According to builders, single-family home construction is gaining, although activity was slowed in some areas by the severe March weather. In contrast, multifamily construction continues to be generally slow, but plans for several large new apartment developments were announced in the last month. Despite isolated reports of improved absorption and leasing activity, the commercial real estate market remains weak. No new speculative construction has been announced recently, although several large built-to-suit projects are underway. Commercial builders generally were pessimistic about their prospects for the rest of this year. Financial Services Bankers in most parts of the District reported that overall loan demand was up slightly in March and early-April. Commercial lending has increased in recent weeks. Although contacts report that home mortgage lending continues at a brisk pace, refinancing accounts for nearly two-thirds of current originations. This new wave of refinancings is approaching the record volumes recorded during 1992. Bankers report that some consumers who refinanced mortgages in late 1991 or early 1992 are taking advantage of lower rates for a second time. Other types of consumer lending were said to be fiat or up slightly in the last month. Wages and Prices Few factory contacts reported increases in prices of either intermediate materials or finished products. There were no reports of increasing wage pressures.