Overview On balance, the Fifth District economy continued to improve in recent weeks. Retailing strengthened and, although manufacturing was generally steady, the furniture market was the strongest in several years. The residential real estate market improved, particularly for houses in the mid-price range. Commercial real estate activity strengthened in the Carolinas and in the Richmond area, but remained weak in Maryland and the D.C. area. Residential mortgage demand rose, while commercial loan demand was unchanged. Activity at Fifth District ports increased. Bad weather led to a deterioration in some agricultural crops and also contributed to a decline in tourism. Manufacturing Our survey of manufacturers indicated that District activity generally held steady during the past month. Respondents noted little change in most indicators, although they reported increases in shipments, capital expenditures, and prices. Virginia manufacturers, however, reported increased activity, especially in shipments, new orders, and capital expenditures. Manufacturers were optimistic about their prospects for the next six months. Increases were expected in almost all indicators except inventories and the number of employees, which were both expected to be steady. Lumber and Furniture Producers at the International Furniture Market in High Point, North Carolina, indicated that the '93 market was the strongest since before the industry slump of 1988-91. Buyers were more confident than in the past few years and were trying to rebuild their inventories as quickly as possible. In addition, furniture analysts suggested that many retailers would be refurbishing their stores in order to better display new products. Cost-conscious consumers and high lumber prices were squeezing manufacturers' profit margins. Three reasons were cited for high lumber prices: (1) recent weather has hindered timbering; (2) competition in the lumber industry has lessened as regulations have forced small mills out of business; and (3) environmental restrictions have reduced the availability of timber, despite increases in forest areas and volume. Tourism Hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity for March and the first two weeks of April declined when compared to February and to a year ago. The respondents attributed the declines to the "Blizzard of '93" and weak consumer confidence. Respondents also indicated that tourists were not spending as much per person. Spring bookings were unchanged when compared to a year ago, and all of the respondents expected tourist activity to improve during the next six months. Consumer Spending Our regular mail survey indicated that retail activity strengthened during late March and early April. Retailers reported increases in shopper traffic and sales, including sales of big-ticket items. Wages and prices rose, while employment and capita1 expenditures remained unchanged. Retailers were optimistic about their prospects for the next six months. They expected sales, shopper traffic, wages, prices, and inventories to increase. They foresaw no change in employment or capital expenditures. Ports Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that both imports and exports were generally higher in March than in February. Compared with a year ago, both imports and exports were about the same at Baltimore and Hampton Roads but were higher at Charleston. Exports were expected to continue increasing at Charleston and Hampton Roads but to remain unchanged at Baltimore during the next six weeks. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that credit conditions improved during the last six weeks. Respondents stated that commercial and consumer loan demand was steady, while commercial and consumer loan rates were down slightly. Residential mortgage demand strengthened during the last six weeks. Application volume was at a record-high level in March, but fell off in April. Home mortgage loan rates were, on net, little changed during the period. Rates bottomed out in early March, rose during the next few weeks, and began to decline again in April. Activity was about evenly divided between originations and refinancings. Residential Real Estate Real estate analysts surveyed by telephone reported that residential activity remained relatively strong, although adverse weather conditions delayed housing starts in some parts of the District. Residential sales varied across the District but were, on net, higher; sales remained strongest for homes in the mid-price range. Prices of existing homes remained mostly steady, but prices of new homes rose because of higher lumber costs. In areas where the residential market was strongest, higher costs were almost entirely borne by homebuyers. In other areas, however, the result was lower profit margins for builders. Nonresidential Real Estate Commercial real estate activity remained strong in the Carolinas and Richmond but was weak in Maryland and the D.C. area during the past six weeks. Analysts noted that vacancy rates fell faster in the suburbs than in the downtown areas. Leasing activity was particularly strong in the retail sector because of a shift towards large, value-oriented stores. Analysts also reported an increase in industrial and warehouse leasing activity. Some new construction was underway, particularly for large, anchored shopping centers and government buildings. Little speculative construction was underway, but some analysts noted that a few builders were beginning construction with only 80 to 90 percent of the building preleased. Other analysts reported that a shortage of large blocks of office space would stimulate construction demand in the future. Agriculture Above-normal rainfall and below-normal temperatures across most of the District delayed spring planting activity and led to the deterioration of some crops. Corn and tobacco plantings were only 5 to 8 percent complete, compared to 25 percent or more normally. Vegetable crop plantings were also behind schedule. Almost half of the District's small grains, planted last fall, were rated in fair or poor condition, either because they were drowned, were suffering from disease and powdery mildew, or were growing at below-normal rates on account of cold weather. On a more positive note, the condition of peach and apple trees improved during the last several weeks.