Summary District farms continue to report growth in both sales and employment. Unexpected increases in demand have spurred some companies to hire additional workers or cancel planned layoffs. Wet weather has slowed District homebuilding, although many areas still report permits and sales at or above last year's levels. Consumer and small business loan demand continues to increase at area banks; some bankers are concerned, however, that slow deposit growth could hamper their efforts to fund further increases in loan demand. Excessive moisture and unseasonably cool temperatures have delayed spring planting throughout the District. Manufacturing Reports from District manufacturers continue to be upbeat, as both sales and employment are increasing. Sales increases in the range of 4 percent to 10 percent over last year are not uncommon. One contact reports a steadier stream of revenues this year relative to last, citing the customers' use of just-in-time inventory as the cause. Many firms report employment increases because of expansions and increased demand. In particular, Arkansas is witnessing spurts of growth from various industries. A steel processor will open a plant in the northeast part of the state, which brings the total to six steel-related plant openings in this area over the past year. In western Arkansas, the expansions of a wheel manufacturer and two apparel manufacturers will add about 250 jobs, while a maker of major household appliances is adding 400 workers because of unexpectedly strong demand. Reports from other areas of the District are also positive. For example, a Tennessee plant producing shoes with a workforce of 260, originally slated to close, will remain open indefinitely because of unexpected increases in demand. This is the second time this year the company has reversed its plans to close one of its plants because of unexpected growth in demand. In March, a steel foundry in Illinois reopened after 18 mouths with 330 recalled employees. The firm also reports that up to 1,000 additional workers may be hired soon to meet the expected demand. A poultry processor in western Kentucky is undergoing a major expansion that will lead to 300 new jobs. Some employment reductions did occur, however. A Tennessee producer of children's clothing reports that reduced sales and internal efficiency concerns will cause it to close a plant by June, eliminating about 300 jobs. In Memphis, a maker of food products will release up to two-thirds of its current 350 employees as it stops production of bulk products for other food companies. Because of a reorganization, a national computer company will lay off about 200 of its 550 workers in St. Louis. Nonmanufacturing Reports from District nonmanufacturing firms also continue to be positive. For example, an Arkansas building supplies company reports that sales are up 11 percent over last year because of strong growth in housing starts. The relocation of a nursing homes operator from Virginia to Arkansas will bring between 300 and 400 jobs into the area by next year, completing this firm's consolidation in Arkansas. A retail holding company that is moving its headquarters to St. Louis reports that 100 new jobs, in addition to the 430 jobs coming from New York, will be added. An athletic apparel maker, consolidating its national distribution in Memphis, is bringing 100 jobs. In addition, a retailer in southern Illinois reports that when its remodeling is complete by year-end, it will need 300 new employees. The District's mining industry, though, contracted further when an Illinois coal company announced that it will close two mines this month, laying off more than 370 workers. Construction and Real Estate Wet weather in much of the District has dampened homebuilding, although many areas still report construction activity at or above last year's pace. Rain and mud have put many District homebuilders 30 to 60 days behind schedule. Despite the weather, traffic and sales activity is reportedly moderate to strong throughout the District. Sales of houses priced in the $l00,000-to-$150,000 range are especially strong in Louisville. New home prices have risen slightly because of the pickup in demand and increases in materials costs, especially lumber. Banking and Finance Loan demand appears to be on the upswing in many parts of the District. Consumers continue to refinance variable-rate debt with fixed-rate instruments: at the same time, consumers and small businesses have increased their demand for new loans, bankers report. Several contacts are concerned about slow deposit growth, believing that the low rates being paid on deposits have led many customers to move funds out of the banking system. They also worry that, should a sharp upturn in loan demand occur, it will be difficult to fund without significant increases in deposit rates or purchased funds. Agriculture and Natural Resources Surplus soil moisture and unseasonably cool spring temperatures are reported in most District states. Consequently, spring tillage and planting operations have proceeded at an unusually slow pace: corn, cotton and rice planting are well behind normal in most areas. Two large fertilizer producers and distributors report that sales have been adversely affected by the weather, but should pick up if the weather improves soon. Although the cool weather has significantly damaged the blueberry and strawberry crops in parts of Arkansas, Mississippi and Tennessee, the peach and apple crops in some areas have benefited. The winter wheat crop in most states is generally in good condition, although some concerns about moisture-related diseases have been expressed, Initial estimates suggest that District farmers intend to plant less corn and rice this year, but more soybeans. Cotton acreage should be near last year's level. Flooding along many of the major rivers in the District has barge activity hamstrung recently.