Summary The pace of activity in the District, overall, continues short of the nation. Employment in the five states has been about flat since early 1986, compared with growth for the country as a whole. Illinois and Iowa are about even with a year ago, in contrast with 2-3 percent growth in Indiana, Michigan and Wisconsin. Hardly anyone is expecting a recession and 1987 is expected to see improvement. Manufacturing jobs have fallen more sharply since January in the District than the nation. Purchasing managers in Chicago report continued though slower growth in production through June, but Milwaukee buyers say output, orders, and backlogs have slipped substantially. Bright spots in the region's economy remain residential building and sales, and related spending on appliances and furniture. Tourism is up strongly according to reports from Michigan and Wisconsin. Auto sales are at a high level, supported by manufacturers incentive programs, and company projections indicate 1986 will be very close to last year's record for car/truck sales combined. Heavy trucks are down sharply. Capital goods remain weak. Nonresidential building remains robust but is beginning to show signs of slipping, particularly renovation work. A diversified producer of consumer and industrial goods indicates that the improvement in demand expected in most lines has not developed. The District has seen excellent crop growing conditions, in contrast with the devastating drought in the Southeast. Crop prices have declined sharply in recent weeks, in anticipation of a large harvest. Livestock prices have risen, and livestock farmers are also benefiting from lower feed costs. District farmland values continued to fall in the second quarter, but not as fast as in earlier quarters. Residential Construction The residential building boom continues in many parts or the District. sparked by lower mortgage rates, though some areas remain depressed. Contracts, in square feet, in the five states were up 31 percent in the first half from a year ago, but to about two-thirds of the 1978 level. In the Chicago area, both single-family and apartment construction are sharply higher this year. Apartment vacancies are described as low here, in contrast with some other parts of the country. Heavy resales and refinancings continue to tax facilities. A large backlog of mortgage loan applications slows processing and closings. There are few takers for adjustable rate loans, quoted rates as low as 7.75 percent in the Chicago area versus around 10.5 percent commonly quoted on 30-year fixed-rate loans. Nonresidential Construction There are signs of emerging weakness in commercial construction. Work on new office buildings continues at a very vigorous pace, but starts on several large commercial buildings in the Chicago area have been delayed recently. Some have been rebid, with new bids often lower. Renovation of existing commercial structures has slowed. Some observers are increasingly concerned about rising vacancies at the many suburban "strip" shopping centers currently under construction or built in recent years. Others are optimistic that the vigorous rise in residential construction is creating a need for this additional retail space. Demand has picked up for Chicago-area industrial space, primarily for warehouse and distribution use rather than manufacturing. Speculative building has increased, from very low levels a few years ago. District-wide nonresidential construction contracts in this year's first half were 17 percent above a year earlier, in square feet, with only Iowa lower. Consumer Spending A major general merchandise retailer reports that sales have continued at good levels, with appliances and home furnishings strong, and apparel relatively weak. The share of goods bought on credit has fallen slightly, and credit delinquency rates are down moderately. Wisconsin tourism officials say activity and inquiries are up 7 to 30 percent, and expect a "banner year". Airline travel (revenue passenger miles) is up helped by lower fares. Motor Vehicles Sales of autos and light trucks remain near record levels, supported by low interest rates offered by captive finance companies of major auto makers. These cut-rate financing programs are placing strains on various groups. An auto leasing company complains that it can no longer sell its used cars profitably because demand has been diverted to new cars. A trade group of consumer lenders is seeking to have the programs declared illegal on anti-competitive grounds. Sales of medium trucks are ahead of a year ago, but heavies are down to a rate of around 120,000 units, versus 140,000 last year. Deregulation has greatly improved efficiency in trucking. As current heavy truck production is far short of industry capacity, shutdowns of 2 plants in other parts of the country may do little to ease pressures on District producers. Steel Order trends suggested a "normal" seasonal decline in mill shipments from the second quarter to the third. For the year, an industry analyst expects shipments nationally to decline to about 72 million tons this year from 73 million in 1985. Raw steel production is expected to fall more because of increased use of continuous casting, which yields a higher ratio of finished product. The share of raw steel produced in the Seventh District this year (approximated by AISI's Chicago and Detroit districts, through mid- July) has slipped to 36.1 percent of the nation from 36.7 percent in 1985. Steel for autos and construction continues at good levels, capital goods remain weak, and the oil/gas market is in a state of collapse. Customers have been shifting orders away from steel companies that have not settled their labor contracts, currently, USS. Industry observers view the bankruptcy filing by LTV Corp as ominous for a relatively inefficient large Chicago mill. Capital Goods Sales of capital goods remain weak. Machine tool orders, which had recovered partially from recession lows, have again dropped below shipments, eroding backlogs. Recent weakness is attributed partly to uncertainties over tax law changes. A major District machine tool maker has announced further substantial staffing cuts. Sizable layoffs also have recently been announced or are expected at a producer of paving equipment and a maker of lift trucks in the District. Markets for industrial diesels remain very depressed. Agriculture District farmland values declined again in the second quarter, but the rate of decline continued to slow. Preliminary results from our latest survey of agricultural bankers indicate that District farmland values declined nearly 2 percent in the three months ending June 30. The latest drop compares to declines of 3 percent in both the first quarter and the fourth quarter of 1985, and 4.5 to 6 percent in the first three quarters of 1985. Credit conditions at District agricultural banks reflect weak farm loan demand, ample liquidity for lending, a high proportion of problem farm loans, and declining interest rates. As of midyear, interest rates charged by agricultural banks on farm operating loans averaged just over 11.75 percent, down 85 basis points from 6 months earlier and 110 basis points below a year ago.