Overview Ninth District conditions have not changed much in the last few months. Some employment indicators have continued to move favorably. Consumer spending may have softened a bit, but still is not weak. The tourist industry still seems to be having a good summer. Resource-related industry performance remains mixed, with problems continuing in the extractive sectors. Little has changed in agriculture except most animal prices, which have increased. Employment Unemployment rates in the Ninth District are still falling. The overall district (seasonally adjusted) unemployment rate dropped from 6.2 percent in April to 5.8 percent in May. During that period, Minnesota's rate dropped to 5.4 percent, its lowest level since September 1981. While the district's improvement is encouraging, it does not indicate growing labor demand; the rate drop was primarily due to a decline in the labor force. Jobs did increase significantly in the Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area, though, which helped ease the stress of workers who have migrated there from more troubled parts of the district. District Bank directors report that other metro areas showing some employment strength were the Sioux Falls area of South Dakota and the La Crosse-Eau Claire area of west central Wisconsin. Consumer Spending Overall, retail sales of general merchandise have been a bit on the soft side lately, but they are probably still ahead of last year's pace. One retail chain reports that its recent sales have stayed in line with expectations. A Bank director notes that sales have been good in the Fargo and Grand Forks areas of North Dakota, but that this success was probably at the expense of smaller surrounding cities. Another director reports that the outlook at a large mall in Duluth, the largest city in hard-pressed northeastern Minnesota, is bullish. Sales of motor vehicles generally held firm in June. One large domestic manufacturer reports that its car sales were 3 percent higher this June than last, and while its truck sales were down 10 percent, it only has about two months of truck inventories on hand. The most recent reports indicate that district vehicle sales early in July were 20 percent ahead of sales a year earlier. Scattered reports indicate that housing activity has remained strong in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, but may have weakened in some other parts of the district. In the Twin Cities, residential building contracts were 55 percent higher this May than last and home sales were 17 percent higher this June than last. Also, members of this Bank's Advisory Council on Small Business, Agriculture, and Labor report housing growth in Baldwin, Wisconsin, and Fargo, North Dakota. But directors of this Bank's Montana branch note slack housing markets in the Bozeman and Billings areas. Tourism The tourist industry, an increasingly important sector of the District economy, is having a good summer. Tourism-related employment in South Dakota, for example, grew more than 47 percent in the last 10 years-much more than twice the growth rate of non- farm employment there. Group travel in Montana is currently 20 percent ahead of last year. Attendance at campgrounds appears to be up throughout the district. Bank directors report that tourist travel to the Upper Peninsula of Michigan and northern Minnesota is good; many Canadians have been passing through Minnesota on their way to the Expo in Vancouver. Resource-Related Industries The performance of major resource-dependent sectors continues to be mixed. A Bank director reports strong demand for wood products, including pulp, paper, lumber, and waferboard, although prices haven't increased. Indicative of this strength, a Canadian company plans to build a $10 million wood fiber sheeting plant in International Falls, Minnesota. This would partially replace the jobs lost when a U.S. corporation closed a siding plant there in December 1984. However, the district is doing very little drilling and almost no exploration for oil and gas, in either Montana or North Dakota. In fact, even some producing wells are being capped. And in conjunction with falling oil prices, coal prices have dropped 10 percent in Montana. Further, the bankruptcy of a large national conglomerate has resulted in the closing of another, jointly owned, iron ore processing plant in northeastern Minnesota. The surviving owner has lessened the impact, though, by announcing plans to triple raw ore production at a mine in that region. Agriculture Agricultural conditions remain nearly the same as a few months ago. Crop conditions still look good, and crop prices are still low. This Bank's latest survey of district rural lenders indicates that farm earnings and land values continued to decline in the second quarter, although the respondents' loan portfolios did not deteriorate much further. Problems caused by low crop prices are being eased somewhat by government deficiency payments and lower fuel and fertilizer costs. And a Bank director reports significant recent strengthening in cattle and hog prices, the former occurring despite increased cow sales resulting from the dairy buy-out program.