Summary The Twelfth District economy is growing modestly, as growth in the residential construction, trade, and service sectors continues to outweigh weakness in other sectors. Retail sales growth appears to have slowed somewhat, and now is either flat or growing modestly in most areas, Manufacturing activity remains slow. The lumber and high-tech industries appear to be emerging from their respective slumps, but more slowly than expected, Oil industry problems continue to mount. Agriculture continues its downward slide. Residential construction activity remains strong, as single family home building accelerates while multifamily building slows. Many lenders, overwhelmed by the volume of loan applications for mortgage refinancing received during the spring, have altered their application procedures for these loans. Consumer Spending Retail sales activity has been mixed. Respondents in coastal California and Washington report modest annual growth of 3 to 5 percent. However, total sales are flat or only slightly higher than last year's in Utah, Oregon, Arizona, central California, and Alaska. Available information continues to suggest that, as expected, tourist related industries in the West will post strong gains this summer. Oregon tourist traffic was 12 percent higher in May than it was in May 1985. Reports from Alaska suggest that a record number of visitors will see that state this summer, providing a welcome boost to the oil-dependent economy there. Manufacturing and Mining The aerospace industry remains strong, buoyed by commercial aircraft sales and as yet unreduced defense contracts, but expected improvements in most manufacturing sectors have not yet materialized. Although greater demand for lumber and wood products has increased western lumber production by 8 to 10 percent during the past year, prices have dipped during the past few months. Consequently, firms continue to cut costs by reducing wages and modernizing plants. The condition of western high technology companies is no longer deteriorating, but the long-awaited upturn has not yet arrived. Low oil prices continue to take their toll on oil producing areas in the Twelfth District. One respondent reports that in Kern County, California, only 30 percent of oil rigs are operating. In Alaska, one major oil company laid off 100 additional employees last month. Reduced state oil revenues have already led to a 15 percent wage cut for Alaska's state workers, and layoffs or further wage cuts may follow. Agriculture In most parts of the Twelfth District, low agricultural prices continue to hamper farm profitability. In Idaho, where low milk and potato prices have been particularly problematic, one sign of weakness is that seasonal growth in agriculture loans is only one sixth of last year's pace. In Oregon, yields of major crops including wheat, rye, and grass seed are expected to be high, but prices remain low. For a few crops, including grapes, apples, and berries, prices are adequate and the outlook is more promising. Construction and Real Estate In most parts of the District, residential construction activity is strong, although most areas that experienced a strong burst of activity this spring have reported some slackening during the past two months. Most respondents report that single family building is outpacing multifamily building by a wide margin. There is however wide variation among localities. In Arizona and Utah, single family permits are running 20 to 30 percent ahead of last year's level, while multifamily permits are down 20 to 50 percent. In Oregon, single family permits are some 5 to 10 percent higher than they were last year, but multifamily permits have fallen by a similar amount. The San Francisco and Los Angeles areas however report single family building up 10 to 15 percent, but multifamily construction up by 40 to 60 percent. In these areas, strength in multifamily permits is attributed to the effects of mortgage revenue bonds and tax reform, and most respondents expect building activity to slow soon. Financial Sector In the wake of last spring's home buying spree, residential loan demand remains strong, and has even increased in Los Angeles during the past few months. Banks have been deluged by refinancing applications and approval time has risen dramatically. Most banks have hired additional staff and streamlined application procedures, but the most severe bottlenecks arise in appraisals and credit reports which are outside the banks' direct control. Banks are faced with falling rates and increasing time between application and approval. In addition, some consumers "shop around" their applications, multiplying bank workloads. As a result, most banks have shortened commitment periods and few still offer rate lock-ins upon application. In addition, many now require a nonrefundable "sincerity deposit," paid upon application, that is applied to processing fees if the loan is closed. Although no banks reported increasing mortgage contract rates to reduce loan demand, a few have increased origination fees.