Overview The Eleventh District economy is still in a slump, but the rate of decline is decelerating. Drilling activity, which has been falling rapidly since early 1985, has stopped declining. The protracted slide in contract construction values has moderated. Manufacturing output is still falling. Auto and retail sales are weak. Assets of large banks are below a year earlier and loan demand is ebbing. Agricultural prices remain below a year ago. Manufacturing District manufacturers are generally reporting poor business conditions as a result of weakened demand from the energy and construction sectors. Primary metal and nonelectrical machinery producers are particularly affected by declines in orders from firms in the energy sector. Although falling oil prices have reduced input costs to District chemical manufacturers, some note that sales are off because of reductions in demand from energy firms. Among producers of stone, clay, and glass, lumber and wood, and fabricated metals, brisker construction activity outside the District has partially offset reduced orders from builders within the District. Electrical machinery firms report low sales growth and slumping prices resulting from weakness in manufacturing demand. Stiff foreign competition is holding down prices in the apparel industry. Orders for paper and allied products are failing. Drilling The drilling rig count in the District states stabilized in July, but it is almost 70-percent below a year earlier. Reductions in both drilling permits and the seismic crew count continued, suggesting that future declines in the rig count are likely. Construction The value of construction contracts has begun to stabilize, after a fairly steady decline that commenced in the third quarter of last year. Nevertheless, residential, nonresidential, and non-building construction contract values remain well below a year earlier, with particularly large year-to-year declines in office building construction. Office vacancy rates in all major District cities have risen significantly in the last few months, owing to a combination of slow absorption rates and a large increase in the supply of office space. Respondents report concern over the financial health of office projects not only because of high vacancy rates, but because of an increasing rate of bankruptcies among District tenants. Despite stable residential contract values, the number of residential building permits has fallen. Single-family home permits have continued to edge down, while multifamily building permit activity is plummeting. Auto Sales Dealers say that auto sales are declining, in part, because of overall economic sluggishness in the District. They also note that high sales volumes in recent years have drastically lessened the average age of the existing automobile fleet, so that the need to replace older vehicles is reduced. Retail Sales Retail sales are below last year's level. Declines are broad-based across product lines. Particularly significant weakness was reported by respondents in the energy-dependent portions of the District. The depreciation of the dollar against some currencies has resulted in increases in the prices of consumer electronics products. Banks At the District's large banks, loan volume is below a year earlier. While business and other loans have declined absolutely, real estate loan volume continues to expand, although at a markedly decreased rate. According to respondents, the growth in real estate loans is chiefly from take-downs on outstanding commitments on projects already under construction and out-of-state projects developed by locally-based borrowers. Bankers say they have tightened restrictions on loans for land purchases and construction. Total deposits have declined significantly since a year ago. The sharpest drop has been in large time deposits, but demand deposits also have contracted. Total liabilities declined in June from a year earlier, despite a large increase in borrowings. Texas savings and loans continue to increase their deposits, but year-to-year growth has slowed considerably, particularly in large time deposits. Agriculture District crop and livestock prices are down significantly from a year earlier and the perception is widespread that income prospects for farmers and ranchers are unlikely to improve this year. Increased payments from government programs this year are not expected to offset the impact of lower crop prices. Agricultural land values plunged during the second quarter. Declining oil and gas prices have affected the debt service capability of over 20 percent of borrowers in the agricultural loan portfolio of bankers responding to a recent survey in the District.