Overview District retailers report a slight increase in activity over the last month, and there is little change in the District's housing market, which remains strong in most urban areas. Manufacturing remains generally weak, but some manufacturing data suggest a moderate improvement in some areas. The service sector continues strong, the tourist business is excellent, and municipal governments seem as yet unaffected by expected cuts in federal funds. Agriculture has been hit hard by heat and drought: many counties throughout the District are qualifying farmers for disaster relief. Consumer Spending New cars are selling at about last month's pace. In department stores, total sales are up slightly, but sales of big-ticket items are down for the second consecutive month. Sixty-two percent of the retailers in our monthly survey expect sales to improve during the next six months, as compared with 21 percent who expect declines. Tourism continues strong. Attendance is breaking records at state parks and other major tourist areas. Housing Market Sales of single-family homes are steady to up slightly in most large urban areas, according to realtor associations. Demand continues to range from very strong in some large metropolitan areas such as Washington, D.C., where home price increases of 15 to 25 percent over last year are not uncommon, to fairly weak in many small towns and rural areas such as those in West Virginia. Reports of mixed movements in mortgage interest rates and points suggest little net change in mortgage terms in the last month. Manufacturing and Mining District manufacturing activity has declined marginally by some measures and increased marginally by others. More survey respondents report declines than increases in shipments and new orders. On the other hand, more respondents report increases than decreases in employment and the workweek. A majority of manufacturers still expect business to improve, but not as many are optimistic as last month. This month, 58 percent think the economy will expand during the next six months; last month, 68 percent thought so. Apparel and textile firms report increased activity over last month, and they expect continued increases over the remainder of this year. Furniture manufacturers report a decline in activity, as do machinery manufacturers, where capacity utilization is around 50 percent. Virginia and West Virginia coal mines have increased production in recent weeks, probably because the hot weather has increased demands for electric power, and because new emphasis on environmental protection has increased the demand for low sulphur coal. Services and Government Fifty-two percent of service sector survey respondents report increases in sales over last month, as compared with 24 percent who report declines. Sixty-six percent of the responding service firms expect sales to increase in the second half of the year while only 9 percent expect sales to decline. Forty-eight percent expect rise in employment over the next six months, while 7 percent anticipate a decline. State, county, and city government respondents are concerned about budget cuts, but indicate that their expenditures have been holding steady or increasing. With regard to the next six months, 83 percent of the municipal government respondents expect a decline in revenue from the federal government, and 75 percent expect increases in tax revenues. Expenditures are expected to increase by 75 percent of the respondents; the remainder anticipate no change. Forty-eight percent of the respondents foresee increases in employment, as compared with 26 percent who foresee declines. Agriculture Record-setting heat and prolonged drought conditions have severely damaged District agriculture in recent weeks. Crops, particularly soybeans and corn, are experiencing extreme stress. In addition, agricultural scientists expect insect damage to be far above normal. The shortfall in yield due to heat, drought, and insects will result in hundreds of millions of dollars of losses to crop producers. The drought has also hurt livestock producers. Cattle are being marketed long before they reach profitable weights, due to the poor conditions of pastures and shortages of hay. Shipments of hay from the Midwest have provided some relief, but heat stress continues to damage pastures and hay. Poultry producers report higher death rates among their flocks from heat stress.