Summary The expansion of the Eighth District's economy is slowing slightly with growth of employment, retail sales and construction trailing that of the nation. District banking activity is characterized by strong commercial lending and a lower growth of consumer and real estate loans. Crop conditions resin good to excellent in most District states. Employment Nonagricultural employment grew at a 2.0 percent annual rate in the three months ending May, slightly below the 2.1 percent national rate. Manufacturing employment declined at a 2.2 percent rate during the same period. Although District non-manufacturing employment has increased steadily throughout the current recovery, employment in the manufacturing sector has not changed substantially since mid- 1984. The District unemployment rate declined to 7.5 percent in May from 7.6 percent in April while the national jobless rate increased slightly during the period. Consumer Spending Despite strong April growth, District retail sales decreased at a 6.3 percent rate in the February-April period compared with a 2.3 percent national growth rate. A survey of major retailers in the District's largest metropolitan area, suggests that second quarter sales were strong in St. Louis and Louisville compared with year-ago levels, moderate in Memphis (approximately 5.0 percent higher) and weak in Little Rock. Respondents anticipated continued third quarter strength in St. Louis and Louisville while the outlook for the other areas was uncertain. Several retailers reported that the declining value of the dollar has resulted in only slight increases in the prices of goods imported from Japan and Western Europe; exporters apparently have limited price increases and narrowed their profit margins in order to maintain their share of the U.S. market. Construction The value of District residential construction contracts awarded in the second quarter declined by 8.4 percent compared with a 14.0 percent increase nationally. Despite the recent decline, this indicator is 6.0 percent above its year-ago level. Building permit data from the District's major metropolitan areas indicate that, while single-family housing exhibited strong growth in recent months over year-ago levels, multifamily building has declined. Nonresidential construction activity in the District increased by 0.2 percent in the second quarter compared with 11.9 percent national growth. In contrast to the District's stagnation, nonresidential construction increased by 29.3 percent in Tennessee during the period. Banking Total loans outstanding at large District banks grew at a 7.9 percent annual rate for the second quarter compared with a 6.7 percent rate for the same period last year. Second quarter loan activity saw an acceleration in commercial lending being offset by a slowing in the growth of consumer and real estate lending. Commercial loan volume grew at a 12 percent annual rate over first quarter levels versus a 2.5 percent rate for the same period in 1985. The Memphis and Louisville markets, in particular, have experienced strong growth in commercial loans as a result of some large banks becoming very active in loan participations originated by New York City banks. In contrast, consumer loans grew at only a 12.4 percent rate during the second quarter relative to a 28.5 percent rate over the same period last year. Agriculture Crop conditions are rated good-to-excellent in most District states as a result of favorable weather throughout the planting and growing season. The corn and soybean crops have enjoyed nearly ideal growing conditions in Illinois, Indiana and Kentucky and are two to three weeks ahead of normal development. Crops in western Tennessee have progressed at a near-average pace but are more vulnerable to moisture shortages than are the northern agricultural regions of the District. Northern Mississippi and Arkansas report crop conditions as below-average to average due to late planting and moisture shortages. Both areas note that timely rains could still result in very satisfactory crops.