Overview Economic activity in the Tenth District appears to be generally sluggish. Significant weakness continues in the energy and agricultural sectors, but housing activity is strong. Retail sales are reported to be below year-earlier levels. Both retail inventories and manufacturers' inventories of materials inputs are being trimmed, an action expected to continue through the year. Loan demand at commercial banks is mixed as consumer and agricultural loan demand is down while residential real estate loan demand is up. Wheat yields were somewhat above average, and a large corn crop is expected that will put further downward pressure on corn prices. Retail Trade Retailers report year-to-date sales slightly below levels established last year. Sales are expected to increase seasonally through the rest of the year due to upcoming back-to-school and Christmas buying activity. Prices, which have been stable the past three months, are expected to increase slightly. Retailers generally are trimming inventories slightly and expect to do so through the rest of the year. Automobile Sales Auto sales are down slightly from last year, but dealers expect this small sales slump to bottom out in the near future. Good credit conditions exist, but they are helping sales only slightly. Most dealers are trying to trim inventory levels, now viewed as a little high. Purchasing Agents In general, purchasing agents report slightly lower input prices, high inventory levels, and adequate availability of materials. Most purchasing agents surveyed report input prices somewhat lower than a year ago. However, they also report that prices have stabilized or risen slightly in the last three months. Expectations are mixed regarding price changes for the rest of the year. Most firms have been trimming inventories and expect to continue to trim throughout 1986. Housing Activity and Finance Area homebuilders report that starts of single family dwellings have increased sharply over the year ago period, while multifamily starts have increased to a lesser extent. Most homebuilders expect housing starts to remain strong during the remainder of the year. Sales of new homes are near year ago levels, and new home prices have remained steady. Builders also report good availability and steady prices of materials. Savings and loan institutions have generally experienced slightly lower savings inflows this year compared with a year ago. Most expect savings inflows through 1986 to remain flat or fall slightly. Mortgage activity continues to be strong, but is not dominated by demand for refinancing to the extent that it was earlier this year. Mortgage interest rates have been steady and are expected to remain stable at current levels for the rest of the year. Energy The substantial drop in oil prices in early 1986 and recent price volatility continue to plague the District's energy industry. Exploration and development activity remain depressed. The average weekly number of operating drilling rigs in the Tenth District was 200 in June, compared with 550 in January and 221 in May. Further declines in drilling and production are likely in the near term if oil prices remain soft, as expected. Agriculture The wheat harvest is completed in the Tenth District except in Wyoming and Nebraska. Yields reported were average to above average in most of the district. Growers are expected to place much of this year's wheat crop in storage under Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) loans. Storage space for the crop is reported to be generally adequate. Ample rainfall points to excellent crops of corn, milo, and cotton. The corn crop is approximately two weeks ahead of schedule in the district. A burdensome inventory of corn from previous crops and expectations of an exceptionally large crop in the making have forced the price of corn to life-of-contract lows on the Chicago Board of Trade. Of increasing concern to corn growers and their lenders is a critical shortage of storage space for the current crop. In some cases, grower efforts to place corn in storage under CCC loan may be thwarted by a lack of available storage space, forcing the sale of the grain at low harvest-time prices. Rural communities remain under strain in the district. Bankers report that the pace of farm acquisition through foreclosure was the same or higher than a year ago. In addition, business conditions for local merchants are generally described as depressed. Banking Loan demand at Tenth District banks was mixed during the past month, with nearly equal numbers of surveyed banks reporting increased loan demand, lower loan demand, and unchanged loan demand. Among loan categories, demand for consumer loans and demand for agricultural loans were down, while demand for residential real estate loans was up. Demand for commercial and industrial loans and demand for commercial real estate loans were higher at some respondent banks, and lower at others, Most banks lowered their prime rate one-half percentage point; the rest expect to do so shortly. Most banks also lowered their consumer lending rates. Most banks report either increased or unchanged deposit activity. Demand deposits, NOW's, MMDA's, and passbook savings accounts increased. Large CD's and small time deposits were down almost uniformly.