Overview In recent weeks, the economic expansion in the Second District varied across sectors. Retailers reported consumer spending at or above planned levels during June and early July, and demand for new housing remained strong. Leasing activity in the commercial real estate market was not uniform, however, and business conditions were also mixed. Delinquency rates on consumer loans at small District banks mirrored the national trend, leveling off in the first quarter following the earlier increase. Consumer Spending In general, consumer spending in the Second District during June and early July was at or above planned levels. Most New York City retailers reported growth between 10 and 14 percent over last year as the large influx of tourists for the July 4th Liberty Weekend contributed to gains in New York City that were above the District average. Higher-priced stores in the region continued to report the greatest year-to-year increases with gains ranging from 8 to 15 percent. Discount stores registered growth between 6 and 10 percent, while medium-priced retailers generally recorded gains of 4 to 7 percent. However, one store in Western New York experienced only a 1 percent increase in sales, substantially below its expectations. Plant closings and recent layoffs reportedly have reduced consumer demand in that area. Consumer durables, especially furniture, accounted for much of the growth in spending. Sportswear and athletic footwear were also in strong demand. With sales in line with expectations, most merchants were able to keep inventories under control. Business Activity Business conditions in the Second District have shown no clear direction in recent weeks. A higher percentage of purchasing managers in both Rochester and in Buffalo reported some improvement in May. In addition, the District's unemployment rate is below the national average and year-earlier levels. In June, New York's unemployment rate fell sharply to 5.9 percent from 7.4 percent in May, while New Jersey's rate of 5.0 percent was half a percentage point lower than in May. However, disappointing corporate reports have raised concern in several areas about the future. G.E. announced that it will phase out small turbine production in Schenectady (idling 1400), two Syracuse plants have recently closed, and Kodak's layoffs continue in Rochester. Moreover, a Buffalo auto supply firm stated that increased employment there due to the popularity of a new windshield wiper will be short-lived. Production is soon to be shifted to a plant currently under construction in Mexico. Construction and Real Estate As the homebuilding industry moves into its peak summer period, demand for new housing remains strong throughout the District. Reports from many areas are that skilled workers, such as carpenters, electricians, and plumbers, are currently in short supply and as a consequence, completion times are being lengthened. In an attempt to recruit labor from outside the District, some builders are offering premium wages, thereby adding to upward pressure on home prices. The high level of building activity is expected to continue through year-end at least, resulting in record number of housing starts in some areas. Future activity may also be brisk. Plans were recently announced to build a 2200 unit condominium complex in Brooklyn, the biggest private housing development there in 25 years. Conditions in the Second District commercial real estate market have been mixed. Leasing activity has been strong in New York City and on Long Island, where construction of new industrial and commercial space also has been very activity. In contrast, the pace of leasing in Fairfield and Westchester counties has been more moderate, and some sluggishness persists in northern New Jersey. Few new construction projects are being started in Fairfield County and New Jersey where vacancy rates remain relatively high. Throughout much of the region, concessions to tenants continue to lower occupancy costs. Financial Developments Small banks in the Second District report that delinquency rates on consumer installment loans have mirrored the national trend: rising in 1984 and early 1985, and leveling off through the first quarter of 1986. Delinquency rates at some small District banks had been running above the national average. However, in the first quarter of 1986, rates at all surveyed banks had fallen below the national average. Most banks attribute the recent improvement to expanded facilities for verifying borrowers' income and credit history and to enhanced collection efforts. Several banks added that they are raising credit standards, lowering listings on revolving loans, and purchasing better quality loans.