Overview Economic conditions are improving. Reports of solid increases in retail sales are widespread; hard goods such as appliances and home furnishings are moving particularly well. In manufacturing, orders and shipments have increased for consumer products and for the materials and parts used to fabricate these products. Demand is also strong for construction materials. However, most capital goods industries are still waiting for the recovery. Housing sales and construction remain vigorous, but in some areas the pace has slowed from that set earlier in the year. Financial institutions continue to experience deposit growth; inflows to MMDAs have slowed but are still substantial. Loan demand remains sluggish. Retailing Retail sales are up in almost all Districts, with Boston, Philadelphia and San Francisco reporting year over year increases in double digits. Sales of appliances, furniture and other hard goods are generally stronger than sales of nondurables, although apparel is selling well in a few areas. Auto sales have picked up; bigger cars are in the greatest demand. Low interest rate programs are an important stimulus to car sales according to Dallas and San Francisco. Retailers are optimistic about prospects for the rest of the year. Inventories have increased, but for the most part are considered satisfactory. Manufacturing and Mining Manufacturing orders and shipments are increasing. The demand for lumber, gypsum and other building materials is especially strong. Atlanta reports that cement plants and lumber mills expect to operate near capacity in the next few months and Chicago finds gypsum board plants already at full capacity. Production of consumer products and inputs to consumer products has also strengthened. The improved outlook for auto sales is having a broad impact, with Boston, New York, Cleveland, Chicago, Minneapolis and San Francisco reporting increases in a variety of auto-related products. Defense is another source of strength in the St. Louis and San Francisco Districts, high technology products in New York and Dallas. The major area of weakness is the capital goods industries; Boston, New York, Cleveland, St. Louis and San Francisco all note that these industries have seen little evidence so far of a recovery. An important exception is Chicago which reports an upturn in capital goods production, mostly for replacements rather than expansions. Both Chicago and Boston note that the high value of the dollar is discouraging exports. The increases in manufacturing activity have been achieved largely through increases in the workweek, but the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago and San Francisco Districts have also experienced increases in manufacturing employment. Manufacturing inventories have fallen recently, according to Cleveland and Chicago. A large part of the decline observed by Chicago was involuntary, with sales exceeding expectations; rebuilding is now underway. Richmond and St. Louis find that a majority of firms are satisfied with current inventory levels. Decreases in drilling costs have stimulated oil and gas exploration in the Minneapolis and Dallas Districts. Metals mining in the Minneapolis District remains depressed. Construction and Real Estate Housing sales and construction remain vigorous, well above 1982 levels; but Philadelphia, St. Louis and Cleveland report that the pace has slowed from that set earlier this year. Demand has shifted towards smaller less costly homes according to New York and San Francisco and to more expensive homes according to Cleveland and Atlanta. Realtors in several districts expressed concern about the effects of rising mortgage rates; however, Atlanta and Chicago speculate that the small rate increases so far may have spurred sales, as potential buyers sought to lock-in current low rates. Boston and Chicago note that buyers continue to show a strong preference for fixed rather than adjustable rate mortgages. Those districts commenting on nonresidential building activity generally see a lot of work in progress but few new projects. An exception is San Francisco which reports that although construction activity is below year ago levels, nonresidential building permits are increasing. Banking and Finance Deposits continue to grow at financial institutions in all districts reporting on this subject. Inflows to MMDAs account for a large part of the deposit growth, but Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta and San Francisco note that the growth in MMDAs has slowed. Loan demand remains sluggish, with only Philadelphia, Atlanta and Minneapolis reporting substantial growth overall. Commercial and industrial loan demand is especially weak. Faced with a shortage of attractive loan applications, financial institutions in the Dallas and San Francisco Districts are increasing their holdings of securities. Agriculture Cold and wet weather delayed plantings in most Districts. Crop development is back to or close to normal in the New York, St. Louis and San Francisco Districts, but still behind schedule in Chicago and Minneapolis. Kansas City notes that while plantings of row crops were delayed, the wet weather has produced an excellent wheat crop and good range conditions. The PIK (Payment-in-Kind) program is seen as having a positive effect on the incomes of wheat, corn and cotton farmers, but Atlanta warns that livestock farmers and agricultural suppliers will be adversely affected. Chicago and Minneapolis see abundant world supplies and weak export demand putting downward pressure on agricultural prices.