The recovery in Twelfth District economic activity is gaining momentum, extending to a greater number of industries. Retail sales at department stares have been rising at an accelerated pace recently, while the recovery in Western homebuilding and sales activity has been even stronger than the upturn nationally. In the manufacturing and mining sectors, employment gains are becoming more widespread. Moreover, although the capital goods industries are not yet expanding their payrolls, employment has stabilized. The net inflow of funds into MMDAs at District banks has slowed but still remains substantial. Banks have been investing most of their excess funds in short-term Treasury securities since business and consumer loan demand remains weak despite promotional efforts. Consumer Spending Respondents report that consumers are imbued with a renewed sense of confidence and that retail sales have been increasing widely throughout the Twelfth District. Major department store chains in Southern California reported that sales rose sharply in May and ran nearly 13 percent above the year-earlier level, representing a solid gain in real terms. The only weakness is occurring in Utah where flooding, attributable to a record spring snow melt, is adversely affecting shopping. Competition for sales is reported to be extremely intense with department stores engaged in heavy discounting of list prices. These promotional efforts are being successful, however, and seasonal inventory is moving well. Sales of durable goods, severely depressed during the recession, are rising even faster than nondurables. In particular, the upturn in home sales is helping to spur sales of household goods, including furniture, appliances, and other big ticket items. Interest rate concessions by manufacturers have stimulated sales of automobiles. Retail credit delinquencies are returning to pre-recession levels. Manufacturing and Mining The recovery in Twelfth District manufacturing activity is becoming broader based. Until recently, gains in employment and prices were confined mainly to the important lumber industry which benefited early in the recovery from the pickup in national homebuilding activity. But in the past two months, employment also has begun to rise in a number of other important regional industries including primary metals, chemicals, apparel and food processing. Recent labor agreements in the aluminum and copper industries have removed the threat of strikes. The pickup in orders for those metals therefore is attributable to a fundamental increase in consumption by the automobile, appliance, container and housing industries, rather than to strike hedge buying. The West's major capital goods producing industries, including those that manufacture machinery, electronic equipment, trucks, aircraft and rail cars, have not yet experienced an overall pickup in orders. Although the defense and consumer markets for some of those products is growing, business demand for capital goods remains weak. Nevertheless, except for aircraft, where low commercial airline orders are still causing cutbacks, employment in most of those industries has stabilized. Construction and Real Estate The West is experiencing an even stronger recovery in homebuilding and sales activity than the nation as a whole. Housing starts in the West currently are running at double the level of a year ago and permit activity points to still further gains in the months ahead. Sales of new homes throughout the District apparently are rising at a strong enough pace to prevent an excess accumulation of unsold inventory. Sales of lower-priced homes have picked up especially rapidly. But in the Los Angeles area, single-family residences in the $200,000-$300,000 price range also are selling well. A large portion of the new homes are being financed through subsidized FHA/VA or state government mortgages. Although nonresidential construction activity remains below the year-ago level, respondents report a pickup in certain geographical areas for such non-office projects as shopping malls, hotels and hospitals. Moreover, the rising value of nonresidential construction permits issued suggests that spending will increase in the months ahead, provided interest rates do not rise sharply. Agriculture The return of clear weather in the past two months has permitted California farmers to plant lettuce, tomatoes, onions and other vegetable crops, which had been delayed by flooding. As a result, vegetable prices have begun to moderate after rising sharply earlier this year. Similarly, fruit prices also are coming down. Prices for fruits and vegetables are still well above levels of a year ago, however, and California farmers are expected to experience a year- to-year increase in net income from those products. California farmers also are expected to benefit from the Federal payment-in- kind (PIK) program. In fact, cotton prices have been rising sharply recently and production costs for grains are down generally. Elsewhere throughout the District, smaller gains in net farm income are anticipated. One potential threat is the record snowpack which could damage California agriculture this summer. Financial Institutions The net flow of funds into MMDAs at Twelfth District banks has fallen off considerably in recent weeks in keeping with the national pattern, partly due to interest rate competition from thrifts. Still, the inflows represent a significant source of funds, which has allowed banks to reduce their reliance on purchased funds, especially large CD's, and to actively promote both business and consumer loan products. Business loan demand remains flat to weak, however. Thus, most institutions are heavily promoting their consumer loan products, i.e., auto loans, installment loans, and credit card plans, to stimulate consumers' demand for shorter-term or variable rate credit. Aggressive advertising campaigns and lower loan rates are the most common efforts being employed by banks to attract borrowers. Despite these efforts, consumer loan growth has not accelerated rapidly because of competition from captive finance companies offering discount loan rates and increasing competition from other nonbank lenders. Since the volume of banks' mortgage loans outstanding has not been growing, these institutions have been investing excess funds in short-term U.S. government securities.