Summary Economic conditions in the Fourth District continue to improve. Employment is rising steadily and unemployment rates, although very high, are falling. Manufacturers remain optimistic about the near-term outlook for price and wage inflation. Retailers report improving sales. Manufacturing orders and production are mixed. Automobile-related production continues to improve, while capital goods orders and production remain flat at a low level. Steel sales and prices are weak, as last winter's spurt in orders has ended. Housing construction shows signs of weakening recently, but office construction remains strong. Commercial banks are very liquid, as deposit growth is strong and loan demand is weak. District Labor Market Conditions Employment is rising steadily in this District. Total employment in Ohio edged up in May for the fourth consecutive month and manufacturing employment has risen for five consecutive months. Average weekly hours of manufacturing production workers increased slightly in May for the fourth consecutive month. Local indexes of leading indicators point to continued improvement in Pittsburgh and Cleveland. Indexes for both areas have risen for six consecutive months. Unemployment rates in the District are falling but remain well above the national average, unemployment rates have fallen in each of the District's eleven largest SMSAs and averaged 13.3 percent (nsa) in April, down from 15.4 percent in January. However, the unemployment rate for Ohio edged up from 12.8 percent (nsa) in April to 12.9 percent in May, as labor force growth exceeded the gain in employment. Prices and Labor Compensation Fourth District manufacturers remain optimistic regarding the near-term path of price and wage inflation. List prices for their own product lines have generally remained stable since January, and although discounts are still common, they are gradually narrowing as market conditions improve. They do not expect to have a significant degree of pricing flexibility until the fourth quarter, at the earliest. With a few exceptions, including natural rubber, natural gas, and inputs for specialty steels, material input prices have also been stable over the past several months. Labor cost increases have been moderate because of a series of concessionary labor contracts, reductions in fringe benefits, easing of work rules, and business cycle-related productivity gains. Retail Sales Major retailers report improving sales. Sales gains have been good for several months and especially good in the first half of June. Retailers report higher priced goods selling especially well, while also noting that customers continue to place strong emphasis on price and price promotions. Inventory levels are satisfactory and firms plan to expand them cautiously in line with sales gains. Retailers are optimistic about the sales outlook for summer. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the District is mixed, with some producers expanding output and others showing no change. However, few firms report declining output. This Bank's June survey of Fourth District manufacturers shows little progress in manufacturing activity in May and June. Employment, hours worked, shipments, new orders, and order backlogs are flat. Inventories continue to fall and about 20 percent of firms report increases in prices they pay for materials, components, and services. A survey of purchasing managers in the Cincinnati area indicates a steady slowing in April and May in the rate of gain in production, new orders, and order backlogs. Inventories of raw materials and finished goods are falling. Firms report a decline in employment in May after two months of increases. Manufacturing of light trucks and automobiles, especially large autos, is strong. Producers of these vehicles and their components report expanding hours and employment, but remain cautious about building inventories. Production of parts for the auto after-market, which remained fairly steady during the recession, is rising slowly. Tire manufacturing is improving mildly. Tire manufacturers report shipments of original equipment auto tires up substantially over last year in line with improved new car sales, while replacement tire shipments are up only slightly. Production is up only moderately over last year because original equipment sales account for only a small share of the business. Manufacturers have stopped inventory drawdown but are taking a cautious approach to inventory building. The machine tool industry is depressed but deterioration apparently has ended. Orders, production, and shipments are flat, and order backlogs are very low. Employment is stable, with firms reporting neither layoffs nor recalls or increases in hours. The low capacity utilization levels of customers may increase the customary lag between general economic recovery and improved demand for machine tools. Primary Metals Demand for steel is weak. The spurt in orders that occurred in February and March has ended. Orders have been weak and flat since then, causing order backlogs to shrink. Steel prices remain very weak, putting great pressure on profit margins. Production in the industry currently is only about 55 percent of capacity. The industry expects to ship about 69 million tons this year, little better than last year's very low 62 million tons. Advance orders for the third quarter are so weak that production, employment, and hours may decline in July and August. Producer inventory liquidation has ended except for oil pipe, for which liquidation is likely to continue through yearend. Construction Construction activity is one of the stronger sectors of the District's economy. Housing construction activity is much greater than a year ago, although recently its improvement appears to have slowed substantially. Most houses are being built on contract, rather than on speculation. The mix of demand is shifting toward higher-priced homes. Prospective buyers are reported to be very sensitive to interest rates and are shopping for small rate advantages. The recent increase in mortgage interest rates is reported to have slowed or stopped the rise of, but not decreased, sales of new and used houses. Office construction is likely to remain strong in the District for another year or two as major projects already underway are carried to completion, but few new projects are being planned. Commercial Banks Banks are very liquid as deposits growth is strong and loan demand is weak. Money market demand accounts continue to grow extremely rapidly, although not nearly as fast as earlier in the year. Total deposits are showing solid growth. Business loan demand is flat or down. Consumer credit demand is generally flat except for some strength in credit card credit and variable rate loans. Automobile loan demand is reported strong in Pittsburgh in response to rate competition.