The Ninth District economy is still on the mend. Gains in sales of homes, general merchandise, and autos and increased interest in tourism suggest that consumer spending has continued to strengthen. Manufacturing and oil and gas exploration have been improving as well. But metal mining has remained in the doldrums, and signs of recovery have been mixed in agriculture. So far, the recovery has been strong enough to halt employment declines, but not strong enough to stimulate considerable hiring. Bank lending, however, has recently picked up. Consumer Spending Consumer spending has continued to show the most convincing signs of recovery. The most spectacular sign has been the continuing sharp resurgence in home building and sales. In Fargo, North Dakota, for example, building permits for 574 residences were issued in the two-month period April-May, more than five times as many as in that period last year. In Minneapolis-St. Paul, home sales in May were up 35 percent from a year earlier. Improved home sales seem to have helped boost home furnishings sales at two large Twin Cities department stores this spring. These stores report that other items have been selling very well too and that many consumers are no longer waiting for sales to purchase. Outside Minneapolis-St. Paul, recent general merchandise sales have been good as well, according to Bank directors. Another sign of recovery is that the April rebound in auto sales has continued through May and early June. A sales manager for one of the nation's largest auto manufacturers, for example, says that his firm's auto sales in the district have in recent weeks been up about 25 percent from a year ago. Verifying this gain are Bank directors' comments about strong auto sales this spring in their communities. A further sign of recovery is that district consumers appear to have become more willing to spend on travel and recreation. The number of tourism inquiries in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan this spring has been five times greater than normal. And the tourism association in northeastern Minnesota reports that it has distributed just about all its brochures; it had expected the supply to last through August. Businesses also have seemed more interested in travel and recreation lately. A major Minnesota resort reports that its recent reservations for business meetings have been up substantially from a year ago. Industrial Activity District industrial production has been manifesting signs of recovery too. The pickup in homebuilding, according to our last report, accounted for much of the pickup in district manufacturing through early spring, but in May and early June, auto sales have been providing impetus to manufacturing as well. A radial tire factory in Wisconsin has been having trouble keeping up with orders, and an auto parts manufacturer in the Upper Peninsula recently recalled a substantial number of workers. The district's one auto assembly plant has been working two shifts and plans to hire additional workers this summer if sales remain at present levels. Gas and oil exploration has also started to revive. In mid-June, 63 rigs were active in Montana and North Dakota, compared to 47 in mid-March. A North Dakota director attributes this increase to a sizable drop in drilling costs. Some district industrial activities are still suffering, however, particularly iron mining. The only Minnesota taconite plant to remain open throughout 1982 just announced that it is shutting down for two months and laying off 1,000 workers. Agricultural Conditions In agriculture, signs of recovery have been mixed. Bank directors continue to report that the Payment-In-Kind program is having a positive impact on agriculture, but several who are in the industry are concerned that excess worldwide supplies will put downward pressure on prices. This mixed outlook is perhaps reflected in the Minneapolis cash prices for corn, wheat, and soybeans; they remained essentially unchanged between April and May, after increasing markedly between January and April. Cold, damp weather in May and early June is another worry. The height of Minnesota corn in mid- June averaged only 7 inches, which is 3 inches below normal, while soybeans averaged just half their normal 4-inch height. Employment The recovery in consumer spending and industrial production seems to have arrested the decline in district employment. District wage and salary employment, seasonally adjusted, has been essentially unchanged since the fourth quarter, and in April it was 1.5 percent below its level a year earlier. (National wage and salary employment increased 0.4 percent between the fourth quarter and April and in that month was down 1.1 percent from a year ago.) District employment has stopped falling because employers have reduced the number of workers they have been laying off. Minnesota's initial claims for unemployment insurance in April and May were 20 percent below their year-ago level. But employment has not risen because most employers have yet to significantly step up their hiring. The Minnesota Job Service currently lists 2,891 job openings in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, for example. Although this is up considerably from last year's 1,780 openings, it is down considerably from the approximately 8,000 openings listed in both 1978 and 1979. Conversations with several large district employers corroborate these figures; none has done extensive hiring lately. The district's largest manufacturer has not added any workers nationwide for several months. Employment conditions vary considerably among the district's four complete states, however. In Minnesota, wage and salary employment in April was down about 2 percent from a year ago, and this can be attributed largely to job declines of 4 percent in manufacturing and 29 percent in mining. Montana had a comparable mining decline, along with a 17 percent decline in construction jobs. That state's wage and salary employment was down roughly 1.5 percent. In South Dakota, payroll employment was unchanged from a year ago, mostly because trade and services employment held steady. In North Dakota, wage and salary employment was up 1.5 percent from a year ago. This stemmed from a 26 percent increase in construction employment that can be attributed primarily to a huge coal gasification project. Financial Developments As some industries have revived and employment declines have leveled off, bank lending has increased in the district. Between late April and mid-June, loans at country member banks rose 2 percent, the first rise in many months. This rise is confirmed by Bank directors' comments that loan demand has picked up in their areas. But directors also indicate that the quality of many recent loan applications has been poor.