Overview Business activity is expanding across a broad front in the Fifth District, yet the pace of expansion appears moderate. Manufacturing firms, generally, report recent gains in shipments, new orders, and order backlogs, but little change in inventories. Retail activity also appears to be improving as both total sales and relative sales of big ticket items are reported to have risen in recent weeks. Inventories at the retail level apparently rose sharply, however. Construction activity has also firmed substantially in most areas. Total employment has made only very modest gains, although the employed are working longer hours, and earning higher wages then earlier in the year. Expectations in most sectors are strongly positive. Loan demand at District banks and thrifts is also on the rise, but remains spotty in most areas, lacking solid support from any particular sector. Manufacturing Rising levels of shipments, new orders, and order backlogs continue widespread in the manufacturing sector. Recent leaders, such as the textile and apparel groups, have been joined by building materials, especially lumber and wood products where some extraordinary gains have recently been reported. On the other hand, primary metals and paper continue to lag somewhat. Manufacturers inventories were nearly unchanged over the past month as a slight rise in finished goods was nearly offset by a very minor reduction in materials on hand. Inventories appear to exceed desired levels on balance, although a majority of firms seem to be satisfied with current levels. Manufacturing employment appears to have eked out a modest gain in recent weeks. Employment was actually reduced at some plants, however. Most of the recent pickup in activity has been accomplished by increasing the length of the workweek, in some cases by as much as 25 percent (32 hours to 40 hours per week). It appears that this process still has a way to go before output gains begin to lead directly to higher levels of employment. Current plant and equipment remains somewhat in excess of desired levels, but much more narrowly so than in most recent months. Consumer Spending Consumer activity continues to be a positive factor in the bigger picture, but now appears less robust than was thought to be the case one or two months ago. District retailers continue to report increases in sales, however, and are selling an increased proportion of big ticket items. Scattered strength in consumer installment lending further supports this conclusion. Available evidence suggests that furniture, appliances, and autos continue to provide considerable strength to the overall sales picture. Inventories were up over the past few weeks at the retail level, but generally remain in line with desired levels. Most retailers also appear comfortable with existing numbers and sizes of outlets. Housing and Construction The situation in the construction sector appears to have changed little in recent weeks. Housing construction, overall, remains much improved, but the improvement is very spotty. Much of it continues to be concentrated in or near metropolitan areas. Most rural areas continue to lag. There appears to be growing concern over the prospects for housing in coming months. This concern seems to center on the future direction of mortgage interest rates. How the housing recovery will progress is generally felt to hinge on mortgage rate developments. For now, however, available housing continues to sell very well in most areas. Commercial and industrial construction activity continues to be buoyed by work in progress. New work and prospects for new work are sparse at present. Banking and Finance Overall, loan demand at banks and thrifts appears to be rising very modestly, and there is no readily apparent pattern, either geographic or for types of loans. Gains in consumer installment lending are among the most widespread, although in some areas mortgages or business loans are leading the way.