Summary Things continue to look up in the Seventh District with prospects favorable for a recovery through the year. Even so, operating levels in durable goods manufacturing will remain low relative to prosperous levels. Summer declines in steel and autos will be smaller than usual. Hiring intentions are significantly stronger than last year at this time, and claims for unemployment compensation are lower. Increases in worker compensation will be smaller this year, but price inflation is accelerating slightly. Productivity gains have been large this year, but are likely to slow down. Retail sales continue to improve, helped by a heat wave since mid-June. Demand for capital goods is showing some life, but mainly for replacements. Closings of marginal manufacturing plants continue. Housing remains vigorous, but rising loan rates cause concern. Some new large office buildings have been announced. Contracts for highway work have surged. The high value of the dollar has sharply curtailed exports of some producer goods. Farm crops are coming along after a slow start, but are still behind normal development. Farm prices are weaker than had been expected, partly because of reduced export demand. Foreign Trade The high value of the dollar is the principal cause of a "drying up" of some export markets. Exports of construction equipment and heavy trucks are 80 percent below the levels of two years ago. There is concern that foreign producers will capture these markets permanently. The high dollar also encourages imports of capital goods such as machine tools, medium trucks, and aircraft components. Reduced airline traffic to the U.S. and smaller foreign tourist business also reflect current exchange rates as well as restrictions on conversion of Latin American currencies to dollars. Employment Surveys show that companies planning to increase hirings now outnumber those planning reductions, reversing the pattern of a year ago. Most of the change reflects fewer planned reductions. No new major layoffs are foreseen. However, most of the companies that cut staff drastically in the past two years do not plan to reverse these policies. Middle management has been most affected by cutbacks. Job opportunities remain very limited except for well-trained specialists such as data processors. The weak job market continues to hold down increases in compensation. Many companies are continuing freezes for exempt workers. Unions face tough bargaining in upcoming negotiations. Inflation Prices are strengthening somewhat, overall, but no significant upsurge is expected this year. Cost structures have benefitted from excellent productivity gains, but this trend will slow as activity rises further. Most firms strongly desire to widen profit margins, which are far below the level of the late 1970s. Housing The uptrend in residential construction continues. Fixed rate home mortgages, on average, have increased from about 12.5 percent to 13 percent. This rise may have stimulated demand from borrowers who fear further increases. (Lenders continue to experiment, with varying success, with innovative adjustable rate mortgages, which still lack general acceptance.) A further increase in rates to 14 to 15 percent could seriously dampen the market. Meanwhile, demand for building materials is excellent, with most gypsum board plants operating at full capacity. Gypsum board is on allocation in some areas, but this is not restricting construction activity. Nonresidential Work on new factory buildings is at a very low level, and no improvement is foreseen. The office building sector is still declining, but some large new downtown projects in Chicago are being unveiled for an early start. The market is overbuilt, but developers believe that space will be needed in three or four years when these projects are completed. Moreover, some developers wish to take advantage of the temporary willingness of "hungry" contractors to enter bids that may seem cheap later on. There is a large volume of rehab work, often handled at wages below union scale. Bridge and road work will be up sharply in the second half. Capital Goods Demand for equipment produced in the District is picking up, but not as rapidly as the national aggregates on orders and output indicate. Producers of steel plates and castings report some rise in demand from equipment producers. Mainly this is for replacement needs, either parts or whole machines. Few industries have large new facilities underway or in the planning stages. Sales of truck trailers are booming because of new regulations. Orders for heavy trucks have improved enough to raise output schedules from very depressed levels. Freight car orders also are up slightly from near zero. Business communications equipment, which held up during the recession, remains strong. Machine tool orders remain very weak, but press orders have increased slightly. Heavy construction equipment remains very depressed with large stocks in the field, including those of leasing companies. Farm equipment inventories represent a whole year's sales, and new layoffs have been announced. Foreign demand for U.S. equipment is very low. Inventories Liquidation of inventories continued into the second quarter for many companies, but in large part this was involuntary as sales exceeded expectations. Rebuilding is apparently underway now, and will contribute to second half strength. Inventories of most cars, trucks (including heavy trucks), recreational vehicles, steel, nonferrous metals, capital goods components, and building materials are quite low. Oil products are in good balance. Retail stocks of finished farm tractors and heavy construction equipment are far in excess of current needs. General merchandise inventories at retail are lean, but additional supplies are readily available. Motor Vehicles Sales of autos (especially large models) and light trucks (especially compacts) are running well above last year. Orders for heavy trucks, many of which are custom built, have increased. (Because of downsizing of the heavy truck industry, there is concern that a surge in demand would strain capacity.) In contrast to last year when car output schedules were reduced several times, they have been increased successively this year. Third quarter output is now expected to be the highest for the period since 1978. The improvement in autos has reverberations throughout the region for companies making seals, locks, electric components, frames etc. Retail Trade General merchandise chains have been reporting improvement in sales for several months, both hard and soft goods, with the Midwest lagging the nation. The uptrend had continued in the face of an abnormally cold spring. A heat wave after mid-June brought a spurt in sales of air conditioners, dehumidifiers, light apparel, and recreational goods, which had been slow. Other lines benefited from this increased "traffic."