Overview Business activity in the Tenth District continues to strengthen. Growing sales are expected to bring moderate additions to retail inventories, but materials inventories are expected to stay near current levels. Small but broad-based increases in auto sales are expected to continue. The winter wheat crop is in excellent condition as harvesting begins in Oklahoma. Farmland values are stabilizing after recent declines. Loan demand at Tenth District banks is showing very little growth, and deposit growth remains limited primarily to money market deposit accounts. The prime rate remains generally stable, and no change is anticipated in the near term. Retail Trade Respondents report nominal sales gains of up to 10 percent in the first five months of 1983 compared with the same period of 1982, with most responses falling in the 5 to 10 percent growth range. Sales in all product lines have been growing steadily, with sales of women's apparel particularly strong. Most retailers indicate that inventory levels are satisfactory although about one-third of respondents are still reducing stocks. For the remainder of 1983, retailers throughout the Tenth District expect a continued steady growth in sales that would prompt about a 5 percent expansion in inventories by yearend. Purchasing Agents Prices of major inputs are currently 3 to 5 percent higher than in June of last year, according to purchasing agents contacted, with virtually all of the increase in the past three months. For 1983 as a whole, agents foresee prices rising 3 to 6 percent. Purchasing agents report attempts to manage inventories extremely closely in the recovery. Thus, over the course of the year, they intend either to trim inventories or to maintain them at current low levels. At the present time, inputs are readily available, lead times are short, and there are no reported bottlenecks of either labor or capacity. Automobile Dealers Most respondents report a small but broad-based increase in auto sales compared with sales in the same period of last year. The growth in auto sales is attributed to low interest rates offered by manufacturers' finance companies. While some dealers report lower-than-desired inventories due to difficulties in obtaining large cars, most stated that inventories are being held constant or trimmed slightly in preparation for the new model year. For the rest of the year, auto dealers expect continued moderate growth in sales. Agriculture The winter wheat crop throughout the Tenth District is in excellent condition, as a result of early spring rains. Harvest is starting this week in parts of Oklahoma. District bankers report that the majority of wheat farmers plan to remain in the PIK (Payment-In-Kind) program. The planting of row crops is slightly behind normal but the recent dry weather has aided planting progress. Range conditions have also benefited from adequate moisture and are reported excellent for livestock pasturing. Many cattle that have been grazing on PIK acres have gone to market after attaining desired weight, while the rest have moved to grass pasture where available or to feedlots. According to District bankers, farmland values appear to be stabilizing after declining for two consecutive years. Not much land is selling, but almost all of the land that is changing hands is being purchased by farmers. Outside investor activity in land sales is currently reported to be minimal. Farm implement dealers are faring poorly with sales similar to 1982's depressed levels. Sales of large items such as tractors and combines have been particularly depressed. Tenth District bankers expect little increase in sales before the end of the year. Banking Loan demand at Tenth District banks has shown very little growth during the last month. A number of respondents report that real estate lending has increased, and a smaller number report an increase in consumer loan activity. Commercial and industrial loan demand as well as agricultural loan demand remain constant. Most respondents report deposit growth. Demand deposits, conventional NOW accounts, and Super-NOW accounts have shown no growth, on average. Continued steady growth of money market deposit accounts (MMDA's) was reported, with most of these funds coming from outside the reporting institutions. Reported growth in money market certificates, small saver certificates, and large CD's is quite variable but, on average, unchanged. With few exceptions, the prime rate of responding institutions was 10.5 percent for the past two months. No change in the prime rate is anticipated. Automobile loan rates have declined within the last month at a number of respondent institutions. Otherwise, consumer rates show little change, and little change is anticipated during the next month.