Introduction The economic recovery continued at a steady pace in most of the Second District through May and June, but some industries and regions are not yet experiencing renewed economic growth. The most dynamic sectors of the District's economy were homebuilding, high technology industries, some automotive suppliers, and the financial and service industries. The regions in which these industries dominate, New York City, Northern New Jersey, Long Island, Syracuse, and Albany, are performing well. It also appears that the patrons of upscale retail establishments are spending much more than they were last year. In the regions that specialize in the manufacturing of steel and producers' durables recovery has yet to begin, and some observers of these areas are not even sure that the recession has bottomed out. Unemployment rates remain above 13 percent in Buffalo and Elmira, for example. In general, the unemployed manufacturing workforce has not been called back in large numbers. Other weak spots include the agricultural sector and, possibly, the office construction industry as well. Some local firms are beginning to increase their borrowing from banks as economic activity strengthens, but overall the pickup remains spotty. New inflows of deposits associated with the MMDAs have encouraged banks to be more aggressive in expanding loans to businesses, and demand has strengthened for construction loans, inventory financing, and loans to computer-related companies. Nevertheless, in the industries and regions where the economic recovery has not been felt, loan demand remains very sluggish. On the price side, only a little immediate upward pressure has been felt on most prices. However, some shortages of construction materials have developed, and the increasing cost of medical insurance is raising widespread concern. Manufacturing With the exception of the heavy industrial plants of the Buffalo area, most District manufacturers are reporting increases in orders and shipments. The high technology sectors on Long Island and in the Albany area have done especially well, and the automotive suppliers near Jamestown and Syracuse are beginning to resupply the "Big Three." However, growth in output has not yet translated into decreases in unemployment in most places. Unemployment in all of the District's major labor market areas, except Poughkeepsie, remains higher than it was a year ago. Employers, for the most part, have been increasing the length of workweeks instead of recalling laid off workers. Retailing The District's major retail chains continue to compete intensely for market share. Sales to middle income households especially have been described as a "competitive blood bath". The stores serving high income clientele have enjoyed the largest sales increases over last year, while the lower priced chains have had substantially smaller gains. The Financial Sector The drop in interest rates since last summer continues to improve the earnings outlook for thrift institutions in the Second District. On average, quarterly losses at New York State mutual savings banks were considerably smaller in QI 1983 than during 1982. Similarly, by the end of 1982 over half of the savings and loan associations in New York and New Jersey had turned profitable, and more recently this proportion has risen further. Deposit inflows at thrifts have increased as a result of the MMDAs, particularly outside of New York City. New savings inflows to New York and New Jersey S&Ls have picked up in 1983, and recent inflows appear to have been the strongest in several years. At New York mutual savings banks, the rise in net deposits since last year has generally been more modest. In part this reflects the high degree of competition for funds in the New York City market. Moreover, some of the savings banks are not aggressively expanding their liabilities as a result of concern over their capital positions. Public Finance The continuing strong performance of the New York City economy, led by the finance and service industries, has improved local fiscal circumstances markedly. In January the City's financial analysts were predicting a large deficit and local leaders were planning large tax increases and the layoffs of some 4,000 school district employees. Since then, revenue collections have exceeded expectations in every month. The latest projections envision a substantial budget surplus, and plans are being considered for service improvements. The stronger than expected performance of the City's economy and the improved condition of its treasury helped pave the way for New York's reentry into municipal bond markets. The City's first competitive bond issue since the fiscal crisis of the mid 1970s recently received a respectable welcome in the market, although still at a relatively low credit rating. Agriculture The wet weather this spring is not expected to reduce crop production in New York State. However, net farm income was flat in New York last year and is expected to remain so this year. Corn acreage has been reduced through the Payment in Kind program, but PIK does not apply to New York's large dairy and fruit industries. Agriculture should, therefore, remain a weak sector of the District economy. Construction and Real Estate Housing sales and construction continued to increase in May though they were curtailed somewhat by the bad weather. In recent weeks some signs have emerged that buying activity has spread to smaller, less expensive homes, in contrast to the first quarter when sales were largely confined to the more expensive end of the market. In the northern and eastern suburbs of New York City and in Syracuse, commercial real estate and construction markets remained quite active. In other areas, the amount of new space about to come on market suggests that construction starts will be sluggish through 1983. However, most observers of commercial real estate in the District remain optimistic regarding the prospects for filling existing office space and expect new construction projects to follow before too long. Wages and Prices With two exceptions, major wage or price increases are not likely this year. Most wage settlements are calling for increases below six percent, and most industries apparently consider competition too strong to venture significant price increases. One exception is building materials. Contractors are experiencing shortages of lumber and of skilled labor. However, increases in the prices of these inputs are typical during the early phase of an expansion of housing construction. The second exception to the general picture of price stability is causing more concern. The costs of health care, and therefore of employee medical insurance, continue to increase quite rapidly. Employers are beginning to experiment with and even implement changes in their medical insurance programs aimed at reducing these costs. Some savings have been realized, but changes are meeting employee resistance.