Economic trends in the Ninth District continued to be favorable this spring. Unemployment declined again, and consumer spending held up surprisingly well. Some important new construction projects were announced. The forest products and mining sectors benefited from increased demand. Except for excessive dryness, agricultural conditions remained stable. Labor Markets Labor market conditions remained favorable in the last few months. Minnesota's unemployment rate dipped to 3.8 percent in April, its lowest rate in more than eight years. The state's initial unemployment claims were about 3 percentage points lower this April than in April 1987. In Montana and North Dakota, unemployment rates were also estimated to have fallen significantly in April. For South Dakota, March data show that job growth continued, with manufacturing leading all other industries. Consumer Spending Retail spending on general merchandise has borne up well recently. One retail chain reports that its department stores' sales in the district were 9 percent higher this May than last. Another chain reports that Memorial Day sales were brisk and that its sales were up 14 percent so far this year. This chain is continuing to remodel some stores while building additions to others. Contrary to experience over the last few years, sales growth has not been confined to just major metropolitan areas. A Bank director notes that retail sales were holding up well in most North Dakota cities, with spending by Canadian visitors helping retailers in Minot and Grand Forks. Inventories are at acceptable levels, and no significant credit problems have been reported. Motor vehicles continued to sell well throughout the district this spring. The car and truck sales of one domestic manufacturer were around 10 percent higher during the first three weeks in May than they were a year ago. Another domestic manufacturer reports that its truck sales were up by even more than 10 percent during May. Smaller dealers in outstate areas have done particularly well this year, but sales at larger dealers in metro areas also surged in May. The rapid sales growth has left inventories a bit tight. While housing activity this spring fell from its record-setting pace of a year earlier, sales haven't been bad. In April, the total value of homes sold in the Minneapolis-St. Paul metro area was only 6 percent lower than in April 1987. A representative of Minnesota realtors observes that the market to be "healthy across the board." Supporting this claim elsewhere, a reporter in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, observes that the city's housing market was "stable, but not booming." Nonresidential Construction Several significant construction projects have been announced recently. A large computer company released plans to add 76 stories of office space to downtown Minneapolis. A financial forms maker chose a St. Paul suburb (over five other sites outside the district) as the location for a large office and factory complex, which could employ another 1,500 workers. Contracts for the construction of public infrastructure in Minnesota were up substantially this March, while contracts awarded for other types of construction were down. Resource-Related Industries More favorable news was generated by the district's important forest products and mining sectors. A paper industry consultant notes that the paper business has been booming, with all Minnesota mills running "flat out." Prices for printing paper are particularly firm. More paper machines may be installed later this year. Plants producing waferboard, a paper-based building material, are also running at full tilt, although prices are weak. After five years of hard times, the district's iron ore industry is recovering a bit. During April, iron ore shipments from Duluth and Superior to steel mills across the Great Lakes were 27 percent higher than a year earlier. An iron ore facility in northeastern Minnesota will recall around 80 laid-off workers to reopen a production line last used six years ago. Iron ore output is also up in Michigan's Upper Peninsula, where hiring has sometimes exceeded the number of workers laid off. And in Minnesota a plan has been spawned to convert abandoned iron mine pits into farms for salmon and trout production. Agriculture Excessive dryness has become a major concern for district farmers, although most other developments have been favorable. Topsoil moisture is short in Minnesota, northern South Dakota, and eastern North Dakota. But a Bank director from Montana reports that some rains in May helped a lot in that state. More favorably, prices of important district crops and livestock have risen. The Minnesota farm price index rose in April. The price received for wheat rose 10 cents over the previous month. A Bank director from North Dakota notes that soybean prices have been particularly strong, and another from Montana notes that cattle prices have reached record levels. Through mid-May, grain exports shipped from Duluth and Superior ran three times higher than last year. But a director from Wisconsin reports that dairy milk production has grown to levels that preceded the federal herd buy-out program, a program intended to curb excess production.