Summary Expansion is continuing in the Seventh District, paced by strong exports and rising capital spending. Total employment growth in the District states so far this year has been in line with the nation. Purchasing managers in Chicago, Indianapolis, and Milwaukee reported strength in activity at their companies. The vigorous pace of activity in the industrial sector reflects the rise in demand for equipment. Orders for steel have been boosted by the expanding equipment markets as well as strength in motor vehicles and an upturn in industrial construction. Office construction, at a high level, may slow somewhat, and further slippage is expected in apartment building. Retail sales have been mixed. Conditions in the farm sector have continued the upturn that began last year, but persistence of a lack of rainfall could cause considerable damage to crops. Manufacturing Industrial firms in the District continue to report vigorous demand, in part reflecting the lower dollar and stronger capital spending. Manufacturers indicate sizable gains in shipments abroad, and some are exporting products previously sold entirely to the domestic market. This increased business is boosting demand at firms providing related services such as freight forwarders, foreign trade consultants, and banks. Makers of components used in a wide range of machinery indicate sizable increases in sales, ranging from 10 percent to 30 percent above a year earlier for various lines. Purchasers placed on allocation are reported to be double ordering, as are others concerned about problems with availability of materials, parts, and supplies. Customer inventories have been increased to guard against problems in obtaining supplies. Steel mills in the District remain at capacity. Strength in steel orders, booked into next year according to a source at one modern mill, reflects the upward adjustment in auto production plans, the record pace of truck output, stronger markets for industrial and farm equipment, an upturn in construction work on factories, and a continued high level of work on other types of construction. Motor Vehicles Sales of motor vehicles continued at a healthy pace in May. Domestic trucks have shown particularly strong gains, and appear headed for a record year. Two pickup truck assembly plants in Michigan are adding second shifts. Some heavy truck makers are not scheduling vacation shutdowns this summer. A Michigan auto assembly plant is adding a second shift to help meet demand for cars, and the scheduled closing of the Kenosha, Wisconsin, plant is being deferred until early 1989. Planned auto assemblies through September are above year-earlier levels. Construction The pace of construction activity in the District, overall, is expected to remain relatively high in 1988, but appears to be slowing. Contracts for construction of nonresidential buildings in District states through April were 2 percent lower (in square feet) than a year earlier, and residential contracts were 19 percent lower. The decline in housing was sharpest early in the year, reflecting unseasonably strong construction starts in early 1987. For all of 1988, starts on homes in the Chicago area are projected to be near the 1987 pace, but apartments will be lower. With few completions expected, construction activity on large Chicago-area office buildings already underway will continue at a strong pace, but there may be a lull in new starts. The mix of nonresidential building construction is shifting toward industrial structures, including warehouses, though hotel construction in downtown Chicago is also strong with several additional major hotels in the planning stage. Retailing Stores in the District report mixed sales performance in recent months. Sales at a large general merchandise retailer were excellent in the first week of June after only a small year-over-year rise, on a same-store basis, in May. Another general merchandiser reported somewhat slower sales in May than a year earlier. Lackluster May sales were attributed partly to weather. A survey of over 200 Illinois retail stores showed sales in April only fractionally higher than a year earlier, attributed to the early Easter, and February-April was about 2 percent above last year. Specialty stores were weakest, both in April and the latest three months. A large retailer reports increasing upward price pressures from suppliers, especially on plastics. A maker of large home appliances expects sales this year to be only slightly below the 1987 record, but is concerned about 1989. Agriculture Improvement in the agricultural sector of the District is continuing this year, helped by government programs. Farmland values have been rising, after a protracted decline. Equipment purchases have increased, from low level. The amount of problem farm loans has declined considerably in the wake of improved sector earnings. Drought conditions throughout much of the Midwest have triggered a surge in crop prices. To date, the extent of irreversible crop damage is believed to be small. But the risk of extensive crop damage has been heightened considerably if timely rains are not forthcoming through mid-August. The recovery underway in the farm sector would suffer a substantial setback in areas hard-hit by a drought.