Summary The Eighth District economy is slightly weaker than in recent reports. After several months of rapid growth, employment in most sectors declined. Construction activity expanded moderately, despite declines in residential building. District manufacturers reported moderate-to-sharp increases in input prices, but no strong wage pressures. Bank lending continues to be slow, particularly in the consumer and real estate areas. Crops face a shortage of rain at a critical point in their growth. Employment District nonfarm employment fell at a 2.6 percent annual rate during March and April after growing at a 8.4 percent pace between November and February. This trend was evident in most District states and industrial sectors. Manufacturing employment declined at a 4.3 percent rate following a 5.6 percent rate of expansion during the same periods. Except for the transportation equipment sector, all major manufacturing sectors reduced employment between February and April. This reduction was particularly severe among textile and apparel producers, who enjoyed moderate growth in 1987. Manufacturing District manufacturers generally report higher input prices, but no strong wage pressures. The largest price increases are reported by a shoe manufacturer, who is faced with leather prices 15 percent higher than a year earlier, and a fertilizer supplier, whose input prices were up 18 percent from a year earlier. Both manufacturers have sharply raised their prices. The reasons for the lack of wage pressures varied. Some District businesses, located in rural areas, still have abundant supplies of surplus labor, reflected in county unemployment figures well above 10 percent. In addition, expanded automation has allowed some manufacturers to increase output substantially without hiring many new workers. A major appliance maker reported that wage pressures are not currently a problem, but could be in the fall, when union labor contracts are renegotiated. Construction District construction activity has expanded in recent months, though more slowly than the national average. The value of building contracts issued in the District rose 2.8 percent in the three months through April compared with a 4.1 percent national gain. While contracts for nonresidential buildings rose more rapidly in the District than in the nation (11.5 vs. -1.4 percent), District residential growth was weaker (-3.4 vs. 8.4 percent). Only Tennessee, among the District states, showed an increase in the residential sector. Compared with a year earlier, District residential contracts in the February-April period were down 9.7 percent. In the St. Louis area, residential building contracts issued this year are down 6 percent from a year earlier, with a sharp drop-off in multifamily construction. Banking For the three months ending in May, total loans at large, weekly reporting District banks grew at a 6.3 percent annual rate, down from a 7.1 percent rate for the same period last year. Consumer and real estate lending, in particular, have fallen considerably. Consumer loans declined at a 0.6 percent annual rate, after expanding at an 8.2 percent for the same three-month period a year ago. Real estate loans grew at a 7.8 percent rate, well behind the 20.6 percent rate for the same March -May period last year. Agriculture Dry weather has begun to threaten crops throughout the District as they enter a critical growth stage. Rainfall in April and May was the lowest ever recorded in many regions. Farmers in northern Missouri have been allowed to graze cattle on acreage previously kept out of production by the price support programs. Other states anticipate taking the same action if dry conditions persist. Projections for the upcoming wheat harvest have been scaled back because of dry conditions. Many speculate that continued bad weather could push soybean prices to $10/bushel, double the 1987 price. Although the long-term outlook calls for more hot and dry weather, good rains in the coming weeks could lead to large crops because of the early planting progress. Farm loan performance at District agricultural banks improved significantly in the first quarter of this year compared with the same period in the last two years. The percentage of nonperforming agricultural loans fell from 9 percent in the first quarter of 1987 to 6 percent this year. Most District states showed comparable improvement.