The Third District economy is continuing to grow in June, although some softness has developed in the consumer sector. Manufacturing activity remained on an upward trend as the month began, with continuing gains in employment noted. Retail sales, however, have been only steady in recent weeks, and retailers say the year-to-year comparison is also flat. Bankers report real estate lending growing at a strong pace, an acceleration in business lending, and slow but steady growth in consumer lending. The consensus forecast in the Third District business community is for a continuation of current trends. Manufacturers predict more growth over the next six months, at around the current pace, but they say cost and wage pressures will mount. Retailers expect summer doldrums that might extend into fall. Bankers forecast growth in commercial and industrial loans in line with overall economic growth, but they say real estate lending may slacken as commercial development in the region tapers off. Manufacturing The Third District industrial sector continues to advance, according to preliminary results of the June Business Outlook Survey. Among local manufacturers contacted early in the month, 26 percent said overall business was moving up while only 7 percent said it was slower. Makers of durable goods reported stronger business than did nondurable goods manufacturers, with the latter operating at a steady pace. On balance, among all surveyed firms, most measures of business conditions showed improvement: new orders and shipments were rising and order backlogs were moving up. Factory employment is continuing on its year-long upward trend this month. Manufacturers say the labor market for basic production workers is tight, but there is no shortage of skilled labor; thus, while they have been able to hire new skilled workers without boosting wages, they have been raising wages at the lower end of the pay scales. Large firms said that while labor market conditions in general have not been pressuring their wage bills, contract COLAs are being triggered by inflation and are likely to increase later this year and next, unless month-to-month increases in the CPI subside. A negative note in the most recent survey is the continuing increase in reports of higher input costs. With 65 percent of surveyed firms reporting increases in the prices of purchased goods, this index is registering its highest reading since May 1981. Survey respondents expect further increases in costs: 83 percent of the companies polled in early June predict input costs will rise during the second half of the year. Forecasting general business conditions for the next six months, local firms generally foresee further growth at around the current pace, with gains in both shipments and orders. Overall, area industrial companies are planning moderate increases in employment and capital spending between now and year-end. Retail Third District retailers contacted in early June said sales in May were only even with May of last year, in real terms, and the trend in recent weeks remains flat. Generally lackluster sales have backed up inventories to excessive levels, particularly at specialty stores, according to local merchants, and some describe stocks as significantly higher than they should be. Sales of home furnishings are healthy, but women's apparel sales remain weak, and sales of seasonal items have been poorer than expected, which merchants attribute to cool, rainy weather. Discounting and promotional efforts to move both lines are widespread. Most retailers expect sales in general to remain flat over the summer and they are less than optimistic for the balance of the year. Many stores have cut back on orders for fall merchandise. Despite the slackening trend in sales, store officials say they are having difficulty maintaining adequate staffing levels. With a shortage of qualified applicants for store jobs, wage and training costs are rising. In order to maintain profit margins in the face of rising dollar costs of imported merchandise, many stores are turning to domestic suppliers, especially for apparel. In other efforts to reduce costs, several retailers plan to close marginal and money-losing stores in the area. Finance Loan growth at major Third District banks has been running at a fairly steady pace of about 10 percent (annual rate) in the last few months, and bankers contacted in June say growth will probably accelerate in response to an increase in business loan demand lately. According to bank lending officers, some of this demand represents an attempt by borrowers to lock in fixed-rate funds in anticipation of further hikes in the prime rate; but bankers believe most of the recent spurt in business loan demand stems from healthy growth in the regional and national economies. Lending to consumers is growing steadily, according to area bankers but at a slower rate than other credit categories. Real estate lending continues to advance strongly, but bankers say this growth may taper off soon. With growing softness in commercial real estate markets, permanent financing for projects is becoming more difficult to obtain, and area banks generally do not extend loans to developers unless such financing has already been arranged.