Most Federal Reserve Districts report sustained economic growth, but some note a somewhat slower pace of growth than earlier in the year. Manufacturing remains strong in most Districts, and export demand continues to grow. Retail sales have generally been somewhat sluggish recently, and construction and real estate activity have been mixed. In the resource sector a further pickup in oil drilling has occurred, but conditions in the forest product industry vary and the lack of rainfall is a concern in crop-growing regions. Several Districts report a recent increase in loan demand. Consumer Spending Most Districts report that retail sales were sluggish during April and May due in part to the early Easter and unseasonable weather. Minneapolis and Richmond had favorable sales results, however, and Boston, Cleveland and San Francisco noted some improvement late in the period. Weakness in women's apparel was frequently mentioned and attributed to unpopular styles and resistance to higher prices. Despite the recent sluggishness of sales, retail inventories are generally at acceptable levels, primarily as a result of tight monitoring and generous markdowns on slow-moving items. Philadelphia described inventories as excessive, however, particularly at specialty stores. Views concerning the outlook are mixed. Those Districts with generally satisfactory sales anticipate more of the same, while those with weaker gains are less optimistic. For example, although some improvement occurred late in May, Cleveland department store executives believe the economy is in a consumer recession and expect no improvement before the fall. Atlanta reports that autos are selling well, while San Francisco has had strong sales of used cars but only moderate new car results. Cleveland and Kansas City found auto sales to be steady but not robust, while Dallas had mixed results. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity remains strong in most Districts though Dallas and Atlanta report a slowing of new orders in some industries. Boston, Chicago, and Cleveland cite export demand as a factor in their manufacturing strength and Philadelphia notes that a year-long uptrend in manufacturing employment has continued. Chicago and Cleveland report sustained strength in the steel industry with Cleveland noting that the Great Lakes shipping industry is reportedly getting close to its cargo-handling capacity. San Francisco states that a number of industries are experiencing capacity constraints but that plans to expand are cautious. Several Districts mentioned rising input prices, particularly for paper, petrochemicals and steel, and Philadelphia reports an increase in factory wages resulting from a shortage of basic production workers. While Boston and Kansas City find that materials are still generally available, San Francisco reports shortages of raw materials, farm equipment and heavy machinery. Boston and Richmond report that factory inventories are at satisfactory levels, and Kansas City states that firms plan no inventory changes in the next six months. However, Atlanta notes, with new orders falling, textile producers find that their inventories are building. Most other manufacturers in Atlanta, and especially producers of paper and chemicals, remain strong. Factory employment levels are satisfactory or rising in Boston, Cleveland, Philadelphia and Richmond, but St. Louis reports that, except for transportation equipment, all major manufacturing sectors have reduced employment recently. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate activity has varied among Districts. While residential construction is relatively strong in Chicago, Minneapolis, and Richmond, most other Districts report some weakening. Boston notes, however, that the prospect of rising interest rates may stimulate some activity in its currently slowing residential real estate market, and Kansas City states that most observers anticipate an increase in housing starts there. Commercial construction shows a more consistent pattern. Chicago and New York note a substantial amount of new office building underway and Atlanta and St. Louis report an expansion in nonresidential construction as well. Plans for several big projects have recently been announced in the Minneapolis District, and Dallas reports some recent stability in its nonresidential sector though at a low level of activity. Agriculture and Natural Resources Districts reporting on agriculture present a mixed picture. The lack of rainfall is a concern in all of the crop-growing regions, but only Dallas and St. Louis spoke of reduced yields as a major threat thus far. Atlanta and Richmond have good crop conditions and Chicago, though noting a surge in crop prices as a result of the drought, states that the extent of irreversible crop damage is believed small at this time. Cattlemen in the San Francisco and Atlanta Districts are getting sharply higher prices and enjoying substantial income gains. However, livestock producers in Dallas and Richmond expect lower profit margins due to falling demand and increased feed costs. Oil production has stabilized in Atlanta and Kansas City and drilling activity in both Dallas and Kansas City is above year- earlier levels. While Minneapolis describes a booming paper mill industry, Atlanta reports that prices for lumber and building products have declined, and San Francisco also notes some slowing in its forest products industry. Financial Developments More than half the Districts mention an increase in loan demand. Philadelphia notes an acceleration in business loans and strong growth in real estate lending. An increase in real estate loans was also reported in the Atlanta, Cleveland, Kansas City and St. Louis Districts and Richmond, Kansas City and St. Louis note stronger demand for business loans as well. Dallas states that the rates of decline in assets and liabilities at its large banks have moderated. New York and San Francisco note that higher interest rates are causing a shift to adjustable rate mortgages.