Economic activity in the Eighth District has continued to expand at a modest   pace since our previous report. Manufacturing activity has increased since the   previous report. Activity in the services sector also has increased, but at a   slower pace than in the previous report. Retail and auto sales have risen in   recent weeks. Residential real estate activity has continued to decline, while   commercial construction activity has remained slow. Lending at a sample of small   and mid-sized District banks declined in the three-month period from   mid-December to mid-March.
Activity in the District's services sector has increased slightly since our   previous report. Contacts in the casino, electronic parts wholesale,   transportation equipment wholesale, and health care industries announced plans   to expand operations and hire new workers. In contrast, contacts in the   education, restaurant, and fire protection services industries reported plans to   decrease operations in the District and lay off employees. General retail   contacts reported that sales have improved and costumer traffic has increased in   recent weeks. Auto dealers report that sales of both new and used vehicles have   increased, but the supply of quality used vehicles continues to be tight.
Commercial and industrial construction activity continues to be slow   throughout most of the District. Commercial construction contacts in Missouri   and western Illinois reported an increase in institutional projects but noted a   scarcity of construction activity in the St. Louis area. Contacts in Louisville   reported that there has been little change in commercial and industrial   construction activity but there is some increase in industrial space leasing. A   contact in Arkansas noted that commercial construction has remained steady while   contacts in south central Kentucky noted some increased activity in commercial   real estate as well as construction. A contact in St. Louis reported an increase   in commercial construction inquiries but noted that it remains difficult for   developers to finance projects.
