Economic activity in the Twelfth District expanded moderately during the   reporting period of late February into the beginning of April. Price increases   for final goods and services remained modest overall despite gains for selected   commodities, and upward wage pressures were limited as well. Sales of retail   items and demand for business and consumer services continued to expand.   Manufacturing activity in the District grew further. Sales of agricultural   products were robust, and demand edged up for natural resource products. Demand   for residential and nonresidential real estate remained subdued. Contacts from   financial institutions reported small but widespread increases in loan   demand.
Contacts in most sectors reported that upward wage pressures remained weak.   High unemployment and limited hiring kept compensation gains at low levels in   most regions and sectors, although significant upward wage pressures were noted   for workers with advanced skills in technology fields. Looking ahead to the next   six months, the reports indicated that wage gains are likely to pick up somewhat   as more businesses eliminate wage freezes established during the downturn.
Demand for business and consumer services rose further. Activity expanded   among providers of transportation services, with gains in cargo traffic reported   for major District seaports. Providers of professional services, such as law and   accounting, reported modest demand growth. Suppliers of energy services noted   further increases in deliveries to households and businesses, and sales   continued to grow for providers of technology services. Contacts from several   parts of the District reported further growth in business travel and tourism   activity, although Japanese tourist visits to Hawaii fell significantly   following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in Japan. Demand fell slightly for   providers of health-care services, as some patients reportedly have been   forgoing elective procedures.

