The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate pace over the past six   weeks. Energy activity remained strong, refining activity picked up, and demand   was strong for most petrochemical products. Reports from the manufacturing and   non-financial service sectors were mostly positive. Financial services firms   noted a slight improvement in loan demand. Conditions continued improving in the   commercial real estate leasing market, and apartment demand was strong. The   single-family housing sector remained weak however, and widening drought   conditions were reported in the agricultural sector. Many responding firms   across a wide variety of industries noted uncertainty about events in Japan and   the Middle East, and some voiced concerns about shortages of parts in the   near-term. Since the last report, price pressures increased, and there were more   reports of hiring activity.
The price of crude oil rose from $85 per barrel in mid-February to over $100   per barrel in late March. Natural gas prices receded early in the reporting   period as cold weather subsided, but strengthened again to over $4 per Mcf at   the end of March, due to geopolitical uncertainties and rising crude oil prices.   Prices for most petrochemical products increased since the last report,   according to respondents.
High-tech manufacturing firms said the fallout from the ongoing natural   disaster in Japan was the major factor impacting the industry since the last   report. Contacts that ship a significant share of output to Japanese factories   noted their profits will be negatively impacted, particularly in the first and   second quarters of this year. One respondent estimated that shipments coming   from at least one factory in Japan may not return to normal until September.   Other than events in Japan, most firms said that conditions were stable.
Paper manufacturers said demand had mostly recovered from the slump due to   bad weather in January and February. Most firms said demand was stable or   improved. Expectations are mostly for stable to improved demand over the next   several months, although the longer-term outlook is more uncertain.   Manufacturers of transportation equipment said demand was unchanged from the   previous report. Outlooks remain cautiously optimistic, although some contacts   noted concern about rising fuel costs and global uncertainties. Food   manufacturers said orders rose at a moderate pace, and the outlook for sales was   positive.
Eleventh District petrochemical producers said domestic demand remained   strong for plastics such as polyethylene and polypropylene. Still, higher U.S.   prices for some petrochemicals have made exports less attractive. The major   exception is PVC which is used in construction, as ample supplies and   competitive prices due to low domestic demand have kept exports solid. Refiners   said activity had picked up since the last report, with stronger demand for   gasoline and oil products. Refinery margins rose despite the increase in crude   prices.
Automobile sales continued to improve; however, respondents note concern over   potential supply chain disruptions due to the ongoing natural disaster and   nuclear calamities in Japan. Aside from these concerns, automobile dealers   reported a favorable outlook for the balance of 2011 due to strong foot traffic   consisting of high-quality customers.
Demand for accounting services increased since the last report, as is typical   for this time of year. One large firm noted that activity picked up noticeably   for transactional business and mergers and acquisitions services. Continued   improvement in business has reduced the pressure to keep fees low. Legal   contacts noted mostly steady demand, with some strength in corporate   services.
Reports from transportation services contacts were mixed, but mostly   positive. Intermodal transportation firms noted cargo volumes declined due to   weaker demand from international clients. Railroad shipments increased   moderately, with particularly strong volume growth in ores, motor vehicles,   petroleum products and industrial construction materials. Container trade   volumes flattened over the reporting period. Airlines reported continued steady   traffic, although contacts noted that fare increases stemming from higher fuel   costs could slow bookings. Most transportation services respondents were   optimistic in their outlooks and expect growth in demand this year.
Apartment demand accelerated since the last survey, and contacts said   occupancy rates were improving and rental rates were rising. While construction   activity is picking up, demand continues to outpace supply suggesting conditions   will continue to improve in the near-term.
Office and industrial leasing activity picked up slightly since the last   report. With construction of office buildings and warehouses at very low levels,   contacts say the modest acceleration in demand for space is likely to have a   positive impact on vacancy rates this year. Sales of commercial property   remained at low levels, although contacts noted a small uptick in sales of   foreclosures and distressed properties.

