Fifth District economic activity generally improved since our last report.   Manufacturers' new orders rose and port activity picked up, with raw commodities   helping to drive exports. Bank officials reported some increased volume in   commercial loan demand, as business clients restarted projects that had been put   on hold. Revenue growth among non-retail services firms was more widespread in   recent weeks, with notable increases in demand for freight trucking and   tourism-related services. Residential real estate markets edged up, especially   for homes in the lower price range. Commercial leasing improved somewhat.   District labor markets picked up, particularly for temporary workers in   automotive and other manufacturing sectors. On the other hand, commercial   construction remained weak and retail contacts reported soft sales. Input price   growth continued to pick up in both manufacturing and services sectors and we   heard concerns about the availability of raw materials.
Port-related activity in the District advanced at a moderate pace, although   several contacts noted that the pace of expansion was slower than a year ago.   Exports of raw commodities remained robust, with exports outpacing imports at   most ports. One official reported strong export demand for break freight (e.g.,   autos and construction equipment), as well as soy beans, scrap metal, paper, and   refrigerated commodities. Another port contact stated that the number of   freighters waiting to enter to port to load--mostly coal and grains--was the   highest he had seen in years. High freight capacity kept shipping rates down,   according to one shipper, but fuel costs were becoming a serious concern, even   when those costs could be passed along. Both truck and rail have benefited from   increased intermodal freight coming through the ports, according most contacts,   but the fuel-cost advantage of rail has given that mode an edge over   trucking.
Commercial real estate activity improved somewhat since our last assessment.   A Richmond Realtor reported a substantial increase in office leasing (both new   and renewals), and the industrial sector experienced moderate improvements in   absorption, while leasing of retail space held steady. In South Carolina, a   contact noted that a vacant plant in a distressed industrial area had been sold   to a local import business. Additionally, an economic developer for the area   stated that commercial permit activity was increasing both in terms of volume   and amounts. However, foreclosed properties were still an issue in Maryland,   according to a contact there, while another source remarked that available   financing for projects continued to be a problem in the Carolinas. Construction   activity was little changed over the last several months, according to a survey   of construction contractors in the District, although the few reports of at   least some gain in activity slightly outnumbered reports of declines. Most   contractors reported cost increases in a wide variety of commodities, but,   compared to a similar survey at the end of last year, a greater number were able   to pass through the increases.

