Business activity in most sectors continued to expand during February and   March in the First District, although retail reports are somewhat mixed and real   estate markets report little improvement. Manufacturers cite ongoing revenue   gains, some quite strong, although they also voice increased uncertainty about   the outlook. Most consulting and advertising firms report strong year-over-year   growth in the first quarter. Retailers and manufacturers continue to fill vacant   positions but say they are doing only modest net hiring; consulting and   advertising contacts intend to add to headcounts but are uncertain about skilled   labor supply. Retailers and manufacturers cite commodity cost pressures and some   are raising their selling prices to pass cost increases along to their   customers.
Inventory levels are mixed, but retailers say they are working to manage them   carefully. Contacts note price increases for commodities, including cotton,   dairy, grains, meat, produce, and nuts; several express concern about likely   future cost increases. Shipping costs are said to be increasing, attributable to   rising oil prices. Selling prices are mixed, with some contacts holding prices   steady and others passing cost increases along to customers. Headcount is   increasing in line with new store openings and select hiring opportunities.   Capital spending is mixed. Outlooks range from cautious to cautiously   optimistic.
A number of technology-related manufacturers plan to hire additional workers   in the coming months, in addition to the workers some of them have already hired   this year. Much of this hiring will be domestic, but not necessarily in New   England. Non-technology manufacturers note limited if any hiring plans. At least   one firm plans to reduce its workforce slightly through restructuring in an   effort to cut costs further, given continued uncertainty in the economic   environment. Nearly all firms, however, mention plans to implement merit-based   salary increases of 1.5 percent to 3 percent. In addition, one firm says it is   planning for a greater merit pool next year to compensate for a few years of low   salary increases.
Overall, manufacturing firms continue to be cautiously optimistic. They   anticipate growth will continue at a steady pace, but relative to the last round   they voiced somewhat greater uncertainty about the outlook for the rest of 2011.   This change is due to the natural disaster in Japan, the current geopolitical   climate worldwide, and ambiguity about U.S. government spending going   forward.
Most respondents plan to augment employment by the end of the year to meet   increased demand. The magnitude of the planned staff-size increases ranges from   3 percent to 12 percent. A number of contacts say they are experiencing   recruiting difficulty because they are looking for highly specialized workers.   One consulting firm also notes that the long work hours that consulting   companies demand may no longer be acceptable to many qualified candidates. Wages   are steady or up slightly, with one consulting firm reporting it has removed   bonus cuts.
Our contacts are hopeful regarding their performance in the second quarter   and the rest of 2011. They see the pipeline as very robust and expect   significant year-over-year revenue growth of 10 percent to 20 percent, except   for one advertising company that foresees flat demand. Some contacts note that   unsuccessful recruiting efforts are a risk for these projections.
The multifamily sector remains strong in southern New England, with new   construction under way in several areas of greater Boston and in the planning   stages in two Rhode Island locations. Lenders continue to bid aggressively for   apartment projects in greater Boston, as rental rate increases persist. While   some Boston contacts worry about potential overbuilding in this sector, at least   one is confident that a glut is unlikely in light of permitting hurdles and a   scarcity of vacant land in desirable locations. Respondents mention no   significant new construction activity aside from the multifamily sector.
Contacts report a recent increase in activity attributable to more favorable   weather as well as the typical seasonal rise at the onset of spring. Some   respondents say the distressed share of property sales has declined, but others   lacked sufficient figures to assess the distressed property share accurately.   Although inventory levels declined in much of the region during February, the   number of homes on the market remains relatively high across New England,   particularly in New Hampshire. Notwithstanding their reports of recent increases   in activity, contacts emphasize that activity levels in the region's housing   markets remain far from what they would characterize as "normal" and they   anticipate a lengthy recovery.

