Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond and based   on information collected before April 4, 2011. This document summarizes comments   received from businesses and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is   not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic   activity generally continued to improve since the last report. While many   Districts described the improvements as only moderate, most Districts stated   that gains were widespread across sectors, and Kansas City described its   economic gains as solid. Manufacturing continued to lead, with virtually every   District citing examples of steady improvement, often with reports of increased   hiring. Retailers in the Boston District reported mixed sales results and retail   sales remained weak in the Richmond District, but all other Districts   experienced at least slight gains in consumer spending and the New York District   cited robust sales. Business services, including freight-related activities,   improved in most Districts. Loan demand was either unchanged or up slightly in   most Districts, with New York, St. Louis, and Kansas City citing weaker lending.   Residential and commercial real estate performance varied across Districts.   Seven of the Districts described commercial real estate as slightly improved,   while five noted that their markets were flat. While most Districts noted little   change in their residential real estate markets, half of the Districts cited at   least pockets of weakening.
Reports focusing on the near-term outlook were most often upbeat. Some   Districts, however, also noted that uncertainties remained high. Boston,   Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas all noted   actual or expected disruptions to sales and production as a result of the   tragedy in Japan. Most Districts reported signs of improvement in at least some   of their labor markets and Boston, Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas City cited   examples of concern among their contacts about being able to obtain certain   types of skilled workers. Some businesses in the Philadelphia and Cleveland   Districts still preferred to hire temporary over permanent workers.
Wage pressures were described by most Districts as weak or subdued, but   higher commodity costs were widely reported to be putting increasing pressures   on prices. Energy prices were cited most often, but raw materials in general   were an increasing concern of businesses. The ability to pass through cost   increases varied across Districts, with manufacturers generally finding less   resistance to price increases than either retail or construction (where weak   demand was a limiting factor).
Automobile sales rose in most Districts. Dallas noted higher foot traffic at   auto dealers and Cleveland, Atlanta, and San Francisco indicated that improved   availability of credit helped to boost car sales. In the Richmond District,   however, vehicle sales were generally unchanged or sluggish, while dealers in   the Chicago District reported a slight decline. Contacts in several Districts   expressed concern about potential supply chain disruptions due to production   problems in Japan.
Tourism strengthened in the New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas   City, and San Francisco Districts, although Japanese tourism in Hawaii dropped.   Tourist activity picked up in the Minneapolis and Kansas City Districts, as   visitors enjoyed late-winter sports, and early attendance at the Cherry Blossom   Festival in Washington, D.C. was above average. New York noted that hotel   occupancy and attendance at Broadway theaters rose above year-ago levels.
Reports from transportation services firms were mostly positive. Contacts in   the Cleveland, Richmond, and Atlanta Districts reported an increase in freight   transportation volume, notably for vehicles and construction materials. Dallas   received mixed reports, however, citing weaker international demand for   intermodal transportation; container volume flattened, while railroads reported   moderate increases. Carriers in the Atlanta District reported increased air   travel for business and leisure, while airlines in the Dallas District indicated   traffic was steady. New York and Richmond cited a strengthening in freight   trucking, and port activity rose in the Richmond and San Francisco Districts.   Shippers in the Atlanta District anticipated temporary disruptions resulting   from the disaster in Japan.
Comments on the outlook were generally positive. Boston mentioned that   manufacturers generally remained cautiously optimistic but voiced greater   uncertainty about the outlook for the rest of the year, based on the disruption   at Japanese facilities, the geopolitical climate worldwide, and ambiguity about   U.S. government spending plans. Likewise, Chicago commented that contacts'   optimism was tempered by elevated uncertainties surrounding recent global   events. New York and Kansas City stated that contacts remained optimistic about   the near-term outlook, and Philadelphia indicated that more than two-thirds of   their manufacturers expected business conditions to improve in the next six   months.
Commercial real estate activity remained weak across all Districts, although   seven reported slight improvements since their last report. Market activity was   still slow in the St. Louis and Philadelphia Districts and remained at low   levels in the Boston, Atlanta, and San Francisco Districts. Markets in the San   Francisco District were characterized as subdued, but leasing activity increased   among technology firms. Most other Districts noted improvements, albeit slight,   in activity. For example, Chicago and Kansas City cited moderate gains in   construction, with Chicago highlighting gains in healthcare and automotive   industries. Improvements in the Cleveland District were also driven by   healthcare projects and, to a lesser extent, by manufacturing and energy. Office   and industrial leasing improved in the Richmond District, although retail was   little changed.
Several Districts reported that credit standards were unchanged or slightly   tighter and that competition for quality loans was intense. For example,   Cleveland described credit standards as unchanged, while New York noted no   change for consumer loans but tightening for other categories in its District.   San Francisco noted that credit standards remained somewhat restrictive.   Cleveland characterized loan quality as stable or slightly improved and   delinquency rates as stable or trending down. However, New York mentioned an   uptick in delinquency rates for commercial and industrial loans. Competition for   quality loans was described as intense in the Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco   Districts, putting downward pressures on rates and fees.
Input prices rose in most Districts, particularly for cotton and other   agricultural commodities, petroleum-based products, and industrial metals. In   addition, shippers added fuel surcharges in several Districts. Boston, Cleveland   and Atlanta cited increasing cost pressures, and some manufacturers in Boston   were raising their selling price to pass costs along to customers. The ability   to pass through increases, however, varied in both the Chicago and Atlanta   Districts, with manufacturers generally being more successful than retail or   construction firms. Contacts in the San Francisco District reported a limited   ability to pass through higher input prices on anything other than food and   gasoline. Kansas Cited stated that more manufacturers and retailers expected to   raise prices in coming months.
Wage pressures were reported to be mostly contained, especially in the   Philadelphia, Cleveland, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts.   Kansas City noted wages generally held steady, even with expanded hiring, and   wage pressures were expected to be contained except for highly competitive or   specialized positions. Wage pressures were described as modest in the Chicago   District. However, Richmond reported slightly faster wage increases. Boston   reported that nearly all of the manufacturing firms that they contacted planned   to implement merit increases, and one contact planned a greater merit pool next   year to compensate for previous low raises. Philadelphia noted some concern   about rising nonwage employment costs, but wages for business firms in the   District were mostly steady.
Activity in the energy industry generally strengthened since the last report.   Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas reported increased drilling activity as   demand firmed. In the Atlanta District, deep-water drilling permits were issued   in late February for the first time since the Gulf oil spill last April,   although the number of rigs operating in the Gulf of Mexico was still only about   half the number prior to the spill. In the St. Louis and Kansas City Districts,   coal production remained above year-ago levels, but was stable to moderately   lower in the Cleveland District. Kansas City reported increased drilling   activity, with exploration shifting away from natural gas toward crude oil,   while Cleveland indicated that oil and gas output held steady. In the San   Francisco District, extraction activity for natural gas expanded, while   Minneapolis reported that late-March oil exploration activity increased since   mid-February. Minneapolis also noted that iron ore mines in northern Minnesota   were operating at full capacity, with expectations that 2011 production will be   the highest in more than 10 years.

