Sixth District business contacts described economic activity as advancing   modestly from mid-February through March. Retailers cited that consumer spending   improved while auto dealers reported strong sales growth. Tourism activity   remained positive as occupancy rates and air travel mostly increased.   Residential brokers and builders indicated that sales growth of new and existing   homes were mixed, but generally remained weak, while commercial contractors   mentioned improving conditions as development increased slightly. District   manufacturers experienced increasing levels of new orders and production.   Transportation firms noted modest advances in shipments and tonnage. Banking   contacts reported soft but improving loan demand. Labor markets continued to   recover at a gradual pace. Cost pressures grew for most District firms, but the   ability to pass through price increases continued to vary by industry.
Hotel occupancy rates rose on a year-over-year basis in several of the   District's major markets, while convention bookings were flat compared with last   year. Restaurant contact reports were mixed and many cited concerns over the   rising costs of food products. Airline carriers indicated an increase in both   business and leisure travel. Overall, the outlook for tourism remained   upbeat.
District residential brokers indicated that existing home sales growth   softened somewhat in February and March, and were generally similar to year-ago   levels. However, Florida brokers were more upbeat with the majority noting sales   gains on a year-over-year basis, which were largely driven by sales of   distressed homes. Brokers elsewhere in the region remarked that sales remained   below year-earlier levels and were slightly weaker than in our last report.   District brokers stated that home inventories eased on a year-over-year basis   and that the number and speed of foreclosures coming into the market had slowed.   Several contacts mentioned greater demand for rental property. The outlook for   sales growth continued to improve, largely driven by positive reports from   Florida brokers.
Nonresidential construction activity remained at low levels during February   and March. However, the majority of contractors indicated that the pace of   commercial development was flat to slightly up compared with a year earlier,   which is an improvement from our previous report. Backlogs declined on a   year-over-year basis. Contacts noted that material prices were on the rise while   competition for available projects remained aggressive. Most contractors   anticipate activity to remain flat to slightly below last year's level.
District commercial brokers reported that markets continued to stabilize.   Vacancy rates remained relatively unchanged from the end of last year and   declining rents were noticed across much of the District. Commercial brokers   anticipate a slow recovery.
Transportation contacts noted that shipments and tonnage continued to   experience modest increases since the last report. Most firms also cited that   they have not yet experienced major disruptions in the supply chain from the   Japan disaster, but several are anticipating some temporary interruptions –   most notably in the auto and IT sectors.
Firms' expectations for unit cost increases over the next year continued to   rise, with material costs and employee salaries and benefits cited as sources of   potential cost pressures. Reports of price pass-through were mixed across the   District and varied based on industry and the presence of competitive pressures.   For example, many retailers noted that strong competition was limiting their   ability to raise prices. Homebuilders said that they have been unable to pass   through material cost increases because of persistent downward pressure on home   prices. However, many manufacturers were more successful in increasing prices to   their customers.
While rainfall totals in some areas have improved since the previous report,   much of the District experienced varying levels of drought. Contacts noted that   prices of fuel and feed continued to put pressure on margins, but prices for   many of the District's agriculture products remained strong, particularly   cotton, soybeans, and beef. Reports indicated that continued strong global   demand has contributed to elevated prices for some farm acreage in the   District.

