The Ninth District economy expanded moderately since the last report.   Increased activity was noted in consumer spending, tourism, commercial   construction and real estate, manufacturing, energy and mining, and agriculture.   The services sector was mixed, and residential construction and real estate   activity decreased. Labor markets continued to show signs of strengthening,   while wage increases remained subdued. Retail price increases were modest, but   price pressures for inputs continued.
A representative of a Montana auto dealers association reported improving   sales; gas prices were not yet a factor in buying decisions. Recent North Dakota   vehicle sales were healthy, and dealers were optimistic about 2011, according to   an auto dealers association. A domestic auto dealer in Minnesota said that March   sales were "excellent."
Late-winter tourism activity was up from a year ago. A chamber of commerce   representative reported that late-winter snowmobiling and cross country skiing   were strong in northwestern Wisconsin. A Minnesota ski resort noted that   February and March activity was up about 8 percent from last year. Several   Montana ski areas extended their seasons due to deep snowpack.
Commercial real estate markets improved slightly. Office and industrial   vacancy rates fell in Fargo, N.D., according to a commercial developer there. In   Minneapolis-St. Paul, a commercial real estate firm noted that vacancy for   high-quality office space went down, but demand for lower-quality office space   remained weak; retail, hotel and industrial vacancies are expected to decrease   slightly from currently high levels. Residential real estate was slow. Home   sales in late March in Minneapolis-St. Paul were almost 17 percent below   year-earlier levels; median sales prices fell, and inventories increased   slightly. A real estate broker in Fargo said the market there was stable. In   contrast, the market for rental housing in Minneapolis-St. Paul picked up.   Interest in vacation homes in northern Minnesota has increased, according to a   contact there.
Wage increases remained subdued. Manufacturing wages in District states were   up slightly in February compared with a year earlier.
Retail price increases were modest, but price pressures for inputs continued.   According to the Minneapolis Fed's ad hoc survey, 25 percent of respondents   increased prices for their final goods and services during the past six weeks,   while 53 percent noted increased input prices. Minnesota gasoline prices at the   end of March were about the same as in mid-February, but were 75 cents per   gallon higher than a year ago. While a number of metals prices remained well   above year-ago levels, some prices decreased slightly since the last report. In   Minnesota, a chamber of commerce representative noted that a surprising number   of businesses took advantage of lower commodity prices last year to negotiate   deals that provided at least short-run protection.
