On balance, economic activity in the Fourth District continued to expand at a   modest pace. Manufacturers reported some improvement in new orders and   production. Information received from retailers and auto dealers was generally   positive. Freight transport volume increased, while energy producers noted   little change in output. New home construction remains sluggish, whereas   nonresidential building showed some pickup in activity. The demand for business   and consumer credit rose slightly.
Rising payrolls were limited to the manufacturing and retail sectors.   Staffing-firm representatives noted moderate growth in the number of new job   openings, with vacancies concentrated in health care, professional business   services, and energy. Wage pressures remain contained. Reports of elevated   prices for commodities, steel, fuel, and other raw materials were widespread. As   a result, manufacturers, retailers, and freight carriers felt mounting pressure   to pass through some of their rising input costs to their customers.
A majority of our contacts indicated that capacity utilization rates continue   to trend higher but are somewhat below normal levels. Inventories are balanced   with incoming orders. Many of the manufacturers we spoke with said that capital   outlays will be higher in the upcoming months relative to year-ago levels. Some   noted that projects delayed in 2010 will be started this year. Others said that   business conditions warranted raising capital budgets for 2011. Prices for metal   and agricultural commodities, steel, and petroleum-based products remain   elevated. Many of our contacts reported passing rising input costs through to   their customers. A few manufacturers commented that they expect steel prices to   begin falling back during the second half of this year. The pace of hiring among   manufacturers has picked up since our last report; however, several contacts   said that they are using temporary workers instead of creating new positions.   Wage pressures are generally contained, with some companies planning to   reinstate merit increases.
Activity in nonresidential construction is being driven primarily by   healthcare projects, and to a lesser degree, by manufacturing and energy.   Information on current business conditions varied widely, though a number of   high-end projects (greater than $100 million) are now entering the construction   phase, after several years of planning. Most of our contacts expect that   activity will slowly improve as the year progresses. Two builders noted that   banks must loosen credit restrictions in order for projects to move into the   construction phase. Another builder said that some of his manufacturing clients   have the cash, but there is no sense of urgency on their part to begin   construction. We heard widespread reports of increased prices for building   materials, particularly steel and petroleum-based components. Contractors are   absorbing these rising costs in their margins. Other than seasonal employment,   general contractors held payrolls steady, and they do not expect any new   permanent hiring in the upcoming months.
Auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sales improved between mid-February   and mid-March when compared to the prior 30-day period, while on a   year-over-year basis, vehicle purchases rose substantially for most of our   contacts. Several noted that they are beginning to see a pickup in sales of more   fuel-efficient cars. Dealers expressed concern about a potential slowdown in the   pace of the recovery. As a result, they are more cautious in their outlook for   vehicle purchases during the spring and summer months. A majority of our   contacts said that new- and used-vehicle inventories are too lean. Used-vehicle   prices are trending up. Reports about lenders loosening credit requirements were   fairly widespread, with credit prices remaining very competitive. Dealers are   waiting for more details from automakers before committing to major capital   investments in their facilities. However, several of our contacts said that they   are currently undertaking some minor upgrades. Most auto dealers are beginning   to hire on a selective basis.

