Business activity in the Third District has improved overall since the last   Beige Book. Manufacturers reported increases in shipments and new orders in   March. Retailers achieved slight year-over-year increases in sales in March.   Motor vehicle dealers also reported year-over-year sales increases in March.   Third District banks reported little overall change in loan volume outstanding   since the last Beige Book, although a few reported increased lending on home   equity credit lines and growth in small business lending. Residential real   estate agents reported some increase in activity since the last Beige Book as   measured by inquiries, showings, and traffic, but little pickup in sales or   construction. Contacts in the commercial real estate sector said that leasing   and construction activity have remained slow since the last Beige Book.   Service-sector firms reported some increases in activity. Business contacts   reported further price increases for inputs as they did in the previous Beige   Book. Output price increases have also been reported in several sectors, but by   fewer contacts than for factor prices.
The outlook among Third District business contacts is positive and has   strengthened slightly. Manufacturers forecast a broad rise in shipments and   orders during the next six months. Retailers expect sales to increase modestly   on a year-over-year basis. Bankers expect only slight growth in lending over the   next two quarters. Contacts in residential real estate have mixed views,   although some expect a pickup in sales of existing homes. Contacts in commercial   real estate expect market conditions to improve slowly during the year.   Service-sector companies expect continued slow growth through the first half of   2011.
Over two-thirds of Third District manufacturers expect business conditions to   improve during the next six months. Among the firms surveyed in March, over 60   percent expect increases in new orders and shipments, and less than 5 percent   expect decreases. One supplier of construction industry materials reported   receiving contracts extending further out into the fourth quarter. Plans to   increase capital spending became more widespread with over one-third of area   manufacturers projecting an increase over the next six months.
Third District auto dealers generally reported that sales were above the   year-ago level in March and were continuing to move up. Some dealers of various   brands noted the beginning of supply interruptions due to halts of vehicle and   parts production in Japan resulting from the earthquake and subsequent problems   there. These dealers said the supply problem had not yet become serious, but   they did not know how extensive it might become or how long it might last.   Dealers reported that demand for large vehicles has not declined yet despite the   recent increase in the price of gasoline. Dealers said they see evidence of   "pent-up demand" and they expect sales to remain strong as long as economic   conditions are improving and the price of gasoline does not rise much   higher.
There has been little change in commercial and industrial markets in the   Third District since the previous Beige Book, according to area nonresidential   developers, builders, and real estate firms. While rental concessions were   widely reported "even with renewals," one contact stated that "rents are   bottoming out and building values are starting to improve for top-quality   buildings." The overall market is expected to tighten slowly over the year. One   contact indicated that the market for industrial space "may see positive net   absorption by the end of the year, but three quarters of positive absorption   will be needed to put pressure on rental rates." Another contact identified   "shadow inventory" persisting in the office market and suggested that "a 7   percent unemployment rate is needed before the office market sees positive net   absorption." With anticipated recoveries extending from six months to two years   or more for various segments of nonresidential real estate, construction   activity remains weak with little growth expected through 2011. Some building   activity may increase for industrial space in the latter half of the year.
Business firms in the region reported mostly steady wages since the last   Beige Book, although some continued to express concern about rising nonwage   employment costs. Employment agencies reported growth in demand for workers,   although they indicated that firms were continuing to delay additions to   permanent or temporary staff until the need for more workers becomes   pressing.
