Fifth District business activity, at least in some major sectors, has apparently slowed in recent weeks. New orders are down broadly among manufacturers. Shipments are also down and order backlogs are being worked off. Manufacturers' inventories are unchanged to slightly lower over the past month but seem to cause no great concern. The picture is somewhat more positive in the retail sector. Prior to the last minute Christmas buying spree sales were steady with only isolated reports of softness in big ticket lines. Fragmentary reports suggest, however, that sales picked up momentum in the days immediately before Christmas. Impressions now are that the seasonal activity was quite strong. Credit conditions in the business loan market have eased recently. Reports are that commercial loan demand remains weak. Also, there has been a substantial decline in demand for financing purchases of consumer goods, particularly automobiles. Nearly half of the manufacturers surveyed report declines in shipments, new orders, and order backlogs from a month ago. Inventories of materials were reduced further while stocks of finished goods were essentially unchanged over the latest survey period. Total inventories remain somewhat above desired levels, but are apparently not a source of major concern at this time. Manufacturing employment also showed little change on balance, but there were scattered reports of reductions in the length of the workweek. Current plant and equipment capacity remains in line with desired levels as do current expansion plans. Through the third week in December retail sales were steady and most retailers seemed to be encouraged, if not enthusiastic, about the prospects for Christmas sales. A major lender to the retail sector reported that, based on sales activity through mid-December, the Christmas season would be quite successful. Inventories at general merchandise outlets are unchanged to down slightly from recent periods, and are generally in line with desired levels. Indications are, however, that building materials dealers are trying to turn inventories, fearing that current stocks may be excessive. Employment in the retail sector has changed little over the past month. A small sample of retailers contacted after Christmas indicated that sales activity picked up dramatically in the few days immediately preceding the holiday. Several retailers feel that last minute buying has made December a very good month for sales and profits. Some softness persisted in such big ticket lines as furniture, but quality merchandise of other types provided offsetting gains. One respondent noted a pickup in cash business versus charge business. Consumers are showing increased interest in high quality goods which will retain their value or provide lasting service. The outlook among manufacturers remains basically negative. Pessimism is somewhat less pervasive among retailers. Even before the recent surge in buying their outlook had improved from a month ago. Some now feel that the present momentum of sales will carry through into 1980. Credit conditions in the business loan market have eased recently, the prime rate falling to 15 1/4 percent at major area banks. Reports are that commercial loan demand remains weak, especially from national accounts. The demand for inventory financing appears to have increased only in a few isolated cases. There has been a substantial decline in demand for consumer credit, particularly for financing automobile purchases. Lenders generally feel that the steep decline in auto sales is due not only to the higher cost of credit, but also to concern about the outlook for gasoline availability and prices. Small car sales are strong, while large car sales are quite weak. Most lenders have put a cap on the amount of wholesale financing they will provide to automobile dealerships for new car inventories. One large floor plan lender, for example, has told his customers to cut orders of new cars for inventory to half the normal amount. At the same time, concern about business failures among automobile dealers is not great, except Chrysler dealers. Bankers in this area are optimistic that their customers by and large will weather the storm. A majority of our directors perceive a softening in nonresidential construction activity, but their comments do not suggest any pervasive weakening to date. There are signs that nonresidential construction, while down, is still fairly active. Nonresidential construction activity is centered among smaller projects, i.e., those up to $750,000. There is virtually no speculative construction underway, but banks remain willing lenders for projects where lease or purchase commitments are firm. Reports are that unsold homes are moving slowly. Lenders suggest that home builders will feel a much greater impact in several months when mortgage commitments are used up.