Despite surprisingly strong national economic data, most informed observers in the Seventh District are in agreement that a national recession has begun, and that it will continue at least through the first half of 1980. The district probably has been in a recession since last spring, primarily reflecting depressed conditions in the motor vehicle industry and in the housing sector. Business capital spending continues at high levels, but appears vulnerable to a decline in 1980. Although inventories are judged to be at moderate levels, most businesses are trying to reduce them further. Price inflation continues unabated, except for some discounting in steel and other metals. Total employment has leveled off in most areas and has declined in Michigan. Retail sales appear to have been disappointing during the Christmas season. Credit conditions are tight, but loans are "available" in most markets. In contrast to the bitter cold and heavy snows of recent years, this winter has proved mild thus far with above normal temperatures and little snow to hamper activity. Outside work has continued on many commercial and industrial construction projects into late December. Activity in the Seventh District in November and December was affected adversely by major strikes at Caterpillar and International Harvester. Work stoppages reflected disputes over work rules and managerial prerogatives, rather than the economic package, which paralleled the auto pacts. The Caterpillar strike was settled December 19 after 79 days, and operations are returning to normal. The International Harvester strike is still unsettled. Output of companies supplying materials and parts also has been seriously affected by the strikes. Output of trucks, farm equipment, and construction equipment would have declined even if no strikes had been called. The companies had been building inventories of finished goods in anticipation of strikes, while demand for most products had declined for both seasonal and cyclical reasons. On December 17, 11,000 Chicago Transit Administration workers (who operate buses and rapid transit, but not railroad commuter trains) struck over a proposal to modify a long-standing COLA agreement that, each quarter, provides an automatic, unlimited wage increase that is related to changes in the Chicago area CPI, which is 14 percent above year ago. The union also demanded a "basic" wage increase and other concessions. Pay and benefits of CTA workers are the highest anywhere, and exceed compensation of police and other municipal workers. CTA operations were resumed December 21 under a court order. The terms of settlement of this dispute are expected to have widespread repercussions on demands of other organized groups. The CTA strike kept some people from getting to work, and reduced downtown retail volume at a crucial times. Confidence in the motor vehicle industry probably is at the lowest ebb since the years following 1929. Despite a series of layoffs and plant closings, vehicle inventories remain at excessive levels, except for a few favored models. Layoffs have also hit suppliers of parts and dealerships. The clouds overhanging Chrysler have hurt sales of its subcompacts which had been best sellers. Some makers of production equipment for Chrysler's proposed new models are said to have suspended work awaiting assurance of payment. Lenders and suppliers of components are very reluctant to undertake a share of the risks of a "bail out." Output of most types of producer equipment remains at a high level, but new orders have been lagging shipments in the past month or two. Machine tool companies with large, firm backlogs and long lead times provide an exception to the usual situation. Order cancellations for producer goods have been rare, in contrast to late 1974, but some cancellations are expected in the case of railroad freight cars. The financial crisis of the huge Chicago public school system has become increasingly evident since mid-November. Revelations of questionable financial practices, indulged in to meet advancing salary demands of teachers' union have prevented the sale of school bonds. As a result, on December 21, 49,000 employees did not receive their biweekly checks. These problems may spread to other municipal operations. No short-term solution, short of federal aid, is in sight. Detroit and Wayne County also show signs of financial stress. These developments have no parallels since the mid-1930s. Credit conditions in the district stabilized, following the initial reaction to the Fed's moves of early October. Business loans have remained available to borrowers with established credit ratings, but frequently at rates in excess of the prime rate. High interest rates have helped to moderate loan demand as heavy carrying costs have encouraged firms to reduce inventories to bare minimum levels. Steel mills report that, to an unusual degree, customers have deferred deliveries beyond January first. Nevertheless, we have little evidence of precipitous inventory liquidation caused by financial stringency. Demand for farm operating loans remains strong, but farmers are not liquidating holdings of crops or animals sooner than normal. Many banks have de-emphasized consumer installment loans, partly because of usury ceilings. Some collection difficulties are reported. Mortgage loan commitments are being met, but new commitments are very difficult to obtain. Some commercial and industrial construction projects that would have been started in the second half of 1980 probably will be postponed. Prevailing rates on home mortgage loans are about 13 percent in most parts of the district. A 12-percent home mortgage ceiling is still in effect in Wisconsin. About half of the S&Ls in Wisconsin now require a 50 percent down payment, which effectively eliminates many borrowers. In the Chicago area there is some concern over condominium loans owed by borrowers who purchased one or more units as speculations, but there is no clear evidence of forced sales thus far. Chicago experienced a broad and rapid wave of "forced conversions" of rental apartments to condos.