This month's REDBOOK reports show total activity continuing to hold at high levels, but softening is expected in the next several months. Mild weather in the North, in contrast to recent years, has influenced activity both for better and worse. Weakness is still centered in the auto and housing industries and their satellites, while performance has been "spotty" or "mixed" in other sectors. Several districts reported retail sales, other than motor vehicles, to be surprisingly strong both before and after Christmas. Signs of erosion in the generally vigorous capital goods industries are spreading. Unlike housing, nonresidential construction activity has remained at advanced levels. Inventories are under close rein and are in good balance overall. Price inflation has not abated. The President's grain embargo has not depressed prices as had been feared. Defense orders have not increased significantly to date, and manufacturers' ability to boost output is closely limited in the short run. Credit demands have moderated in the face of high interest rates and tighter credit standards. Generalizations offered by the twelve districts reflect trends in the major concentrations of activity in each region. Boston respondents "still see very few signs of a downturn." New York reports activity "surprisingly resilient in January." Philadelphia finds a contrast between a decline in manufacturing and "unexpectedly strong" retail sales. Cleveland respondents "still expect a recession," but are less certain about "timing and depth." The Richmond district's businessmen remain "decidedly negative." Atlanta reports weakness in retail sales, but a boom in tourism. Chicago, affected more than the nation by the slowdown, sees "further deterioration." In St. Louis, the evidence suggests that total business activity has "declined somewhat" in recent weeks. Minneapolis reports that "the region is not in a recession," but "signs of softening persist." Kansas City says "business activity continues to slow." Dallas finds near-term weakness confined largely to autos and housing, with sustained long-term growth apparently assured. San Francisco reports "no major decline in employment or production." Mild temperatures and light snowfalls in December and January contrasted with experience of recent years. In the northern districts there were few impediments to transportation of commodities and people, and construction continued at abnormally high levels. As a result, retail sales and manufacturing may have been maintained at deceivingly high rates. However, lack of snow markedly reduced tourist outlays in resort areas. Winter merchandise had to be moved with large markdowns. Stocks of fuel for heating were more than ample. Tourism in the South, by contrast, set new records. Auto and truck sales remain seriously depressed, with most parts end assembly plants operating far below capacity. Some plants are being closed permanently. Sales of imports and desirable small domestic cars are still limited by availability. Many auto dealerships have closed and there are fears that many more will go under before sales revive in the spring. High interest rates are a major burden for dealers carrying inventories and many potential car buyers have been deterred by high finance charges and tighter lending standards. Residential construction activity and sales of existing properties have declined further, with the end of the slide still not in sight. The recent suspension of state mortgage usury ceilings has not significantly benefited states where usury was a barrier. High interest rates, large down payments, and high prices keep many potential buyers out of the market. Most districts report considerable strength in nonresidential construction, especially office and commercial buildings. Atlanta expects a surge in building of ethanol plants. In the mining sector coal gasification projects are underway, and precious metals are booming in the West under the stimulus of high prices. Capital equipment production continues at high levels, but this sector probably is no longer expanding overall. Among the strongest groups are machine tools, railroad equipment, energy-conserving equipment, items related to oil and gas exploration, electronics, and commercial aircraft. Among the weaker groups are construction equipment, farm equipment, heavy trucks and trailers. Some districts expect a rise in defense orders, but expansion of output will be limited by the availability of critical materials, various components, and skilled workers. Inventories at both the manufacturing and distribution levels have been kept lean by adjustments in output, except for some products facing very weak demand. Retail inventories had appeared somewhat high before Christmas, but special promotions helped to correct these conditions. Reports from virtually all districts show inflation continuing at a high rate, with no abatement expected in 1980. Rising energy prices and rising labor costs are largely responsible. The farm sector is relatively prosperous because of bumper crops and high prices. However, the grain embargo has created a larger-than expected stock overhanging the market. Also, farm credit conditions are very tight, causing some farmers to defer purchases of equipment and other investments. The new two and one-half year floating rate certificates are proving popular at both S&Ls and banks. Six-month money market certificates continue to expand at a rapid pace, and account for a larger volume of funds. Reports on the strength of business loan demand were mixed.