While inflation in the Kansas City District remains strong, business conditions have begun to weaken. Homebuilders and auto dealers report the most substantial declines in District activity. Purchasing agents report rapidly rising input prices and continued efforts to trim inventories. Retailers report an increase in sales over last year and inventories that have been trimmed to suitable levels. Loan demand has declined in all categories throughout the District, due to the weakening economy and high interest rates. Liquidity at District agricultural banks is beginning to show some improvement as a result of some slackening in loan demand-prompted by higher interest rates-and increased deposit growth resulting from agricultural products sales. The number of new housing units started and the level of auto sales have both declined substantially in the past month. Housing starts are 25-50 per cent below last year's levels and no improvement is expected soon. Sales of new American made cars have declined by 10 to 35 per cent since October. Purchasing agents in the Tenth District report input prices have generally risen 8 to 10 per cent over the year, with the prices of petroleum based commodities increasing ever more rapidly. Input availability is not a major problem in the District and most companies contacted expect delivery conditions to remain satisfactory. An overwhelming majority of purchasing agents indicate that they have recently moved to further trim inventories, due to high interest rates and expectations of lower sales in coming months. Planned inventory reductions are not expected to be large, however. About half the firms contacted report some excess plant capacity, though not yet critical. The labor market is still very tight in Lincoln and Omaha, but labor supply seems adequate elsewhere in the District. Retailers contacted report increases in year-to-date total sales of between 4 and 20 per cent. Retailers are satisfied with their current inventory levels, as inventory trimming has been a standard practice throughout the second half of the year. All retailers expect to maintain current pricing and inventory policies during the coming months. Agricultural banks report some improvement in liquidity during the past few weeks. This results from strong deposit growth from grain and livestock sales at quite favorable prices, as well as from some reduction in loan demand. In parts of the District that are experiencing strong loan demand as a result of energy and urban development, little or no improvement in liquidity has occurred. The paydown on 1979 farm loans has been better than last year. However, some bankers note that the cash flow projections of borrowers are not holding up because of lower product prices and higher production costs. Furthermore, as bankers discuss 1980 credit needs with their customers, both parties are dismayed to discover the impact of higher input costs, short-term interest rates included, on production costs and credit needs. There is some concern about the ability of country banks to provide for their customers' legitimate credit needs during 1980, especially if the quarter per cent interest rate differential on money certificates is reimposed. But most bankers indicate they are planning to take care of established customers. Finally, most banks are improving the quality of their agricultural loan portfolios, including increases in the collateral pledged. Farmers and ranchers have limited ability to reduce credit requirements for production purposes. Many cattle feeders, however, are reducing the rate of replacement of cattle on feed, until profit margins show some improvement. Moreover, demand for farm machinery and other buildings and equipment appears to be off substantially in many parts of the District. Most Tenth District banks contacted report strong declines in loan demand since November 1. Auto and construction loans are particularly weak. Aside from changes in the prime rate to match national changes, further tightening of credit terms is not expected. A few bankers note that quality standards for business and consumer loans have tightened, and others are increasing the downpayment required for consumer loans. Restrictive usury ceilings continue to hamper mortgage lending by District savings and loan associations. Even in states with no usury ceilings, however, high rates continue to deter borrowing. Savings and loan deposit flows have shown some limited improvement since November 1, with a few associations noting net inflows over the period. Bankers note potential liquidity problems for auto dealers, retailers, and local trucking companies. Rising levels of accounts receivable were also mentioned as a problem, particularly for small, undercapitalized firms. One banker mentioned the possibility of country banks facing liquidity problems because grain is not being sold. Savings and loan executives expect that, while a few builders will face bankruptcy in the coming months, most builders will not experience great financial difficulties.