The economy of the Eleventh District enters the eighties on a strong underpinning that promises sustained, long-term growth. Weakness in the near term apparently will confined largely to auto sales and residential construction, while dollar sales at department stores are likely to slow. Increased oil field activity and nonresidential construction, and their supplying industries, are expected to provide most of the strength to the economy this year. Buyer resistance to high interest rates has stymied home mortgage lending. Bank loan demands are running slightly ahead of normal for this time of year, while agricultural loans at rural banks declined slightly last quarter. The dollar volume of department store sales in the Eleventh District is about 18 percent above the level a year ago when bad weather brought shopping to a standstill. And retail executives indicate post-Christmas sales exceeded expectations. Sales in South Texas are being bolstered by a heavy influx of northern tourists and increased buying by Mexican nationals. Retail inventories are trim. Most retailers expect a slowing trend in sales for the next six months and are ordering conservatively for spring and summer. New car sales may have bottomed out at the low level recorded in December, according to dealers surveyed. Tight credit conditions continue to be a drag on sales. Our respondents suggest sales are 15 to 35 percent below potential because many would-be customers cannot obtain credit. Auto inventories remain higher than desired, but improved deliveries of popular domestic models are helping to keep stocks up. Most dealers forecast a pickup in sales this spring, especially if credit conditions ease. Output continues to increase in most manufacturing industries. Much of the strength is centered in building materials, machinery and metals; but food and apparel production is also on the rise. The only areas of weakness are auto assemblies and refining. Refinery runs continue to decline with weakening demand and improved inventory levels of finished products. A prolonged strike by the Oil, Chemical, and Atomic Workers union could eventually impact on refinery output. A survey of three large aircraft manufacturers indicate they could increase substantially their current average rate of capacity utilization if defense spending is boosted. However, all cited substantial production bottlenecks would be created at the materials and supplier stages of production if expenditures were increased rapidly. Drilling activity is off to a fast start this year because of favorable weather and high product prices. The average rotary drilling rig count in the nation is forecast to rise about 12 percent, and the number of wells completed is expected to increase about 7 percent. Expanding oil field activity has created a continued shortage of experienced drilling crews. Construction activity shows little sign of slowing. Much of the increase in activity this year will be for such heavy construction projects as highways; earthwork, waterways, and irrigation; and water and sewerage systems. Large nonresidential building construction projects should also post strong gains, while residential and small business construction projects should slip further. The mortgage market in Texas is at a standoff. Buyer resistance to the prevailing 13-percent mortgage rate is stiff, and some S&Ls have begun to back down from that rate. Loan activity is not expected to pick up substantially until buyers are offered a more acceptable rate, and the S&Ls increase their liquidity by selling loans in the secondary market. New savings inflows at S&Ls continue to run below seasonal norms. Municipally backed bond programs stimulated mortgage activity in some Texas cities, but those funds were exhausted quickly. Total borrowings at District member banks quickened at year-end, but business loans at large banks remain soft, especially to customers in nondurable goods manufacturing, trade, and services. Deposits at large banks are growing slightly faster than normal for this time of year, and liquidity is not a problem. Our January survey of rural bankers indicates farm loan demand has eased somewhat since October. Requests for feeder cattle loans, in particular, are down. Higher interest costs may have contributed to the apparent decline in cattle feeding activity. On average, interest rates charged for short-term farm operating and feeder cattle loans at survey banks increased about one and one-half percentage points in the fourth quarter of 1979. Loan-deposit ratios averaged 59 percent, compared with 63 percent in October and 60 percent a year ago.