Overview Reports from contacts in the District suggest that the Southeast economy grew moderately in January and February, despite the adverse effects of some locally harsh winter weather. Retail sales in January were damped throughout much of the District by weather conditions which forced stores to close or cut hours; however, some retailers report a rebound in February. Manufacturing performance edged up, halting a slowdown reported previously, but near-term expectations became more restrained. Tourism and business travel continued to grow vigorously throughout the District. Although bad weather slowed construction in many areas of the District, single-family home sales picked up in January and February after slowing at the end of last year. Commercial and multifamily markets continued to improve. Bankers characterized overall loan demand as mixed. Most contacts reported that wages and prices remained steady. Consumer Spending District retailers report that January sales were weak around the region; February sales results continued to be weak in the northern part of the District but rebounded in the south. Merchants in the north, an area hit by harsh winter weather, reported disappointing sales in February. Many stores operated on restricted hours or closed their doors because of icy conditions early in the month. As a result, inventories are a little heavy. These retailers noted that sales picked up at the end of February as the weather warmed up. Merchants in warmer climates reported a year- over-year rise in sales in February, a rebound from January, and describe current inventories as on target. Retailers throughout the District are optimistic that spring sales will exceed year-ago levels. Manufacturing Factory performance improved in late January and February after two weak months, with modest gains in shipments and production, according to most industry spokespersons. The volume of new orders also picked up, and more employers added to their payrolls. Most contacts said inventories declined moderately. Expectations of future improvements in manufacturing conditions generally declined, despite the recent pickup in activity. Contacts generally expect production, new orders, employment, and the workweek to wane over the next six months; however, they expect capital spending to continue to increase as manufacturers seek to become more competitive in domestic and international markets. A regional producer of industrial machinery reports that strong foreign markets have increased his firm's order backlogs. Electrical and electronic equipment producers across the District also report increasing business. Regional chemical producers continue to operate at full capacity. By contrast, suppliers to the auto industry describe conditions within the District as sluggish. Some apparel producers report continued weakness in their industry, with the factory workweek and volume of new orders remaining below year-ago levels. Orders are declining for a paper manufacturer, and packagers note slowing production and sales. Tourism and Business Travel The tourism, convention, and business travel industry continues to lift the region's economy. Representatives for Atlanta's tourist industry say the area's convention attendance is surging and is not expected to decline this year over last, even though the Olympics will engage major facilities in a portion of the summer. Officials for South Florida's tourism industry report that hotel and motel bookings hit a peak in February with Northerners escaping the miserable weather. The number of domestic, European, and Brazilian tourists has increased significantly in Florida, but Mexican tourists have stayed away. Tourism officials expect that hotel occupancies in New Orleans will be greater in 1996 than in 1995 because of a series of large meetings booked there and a continued strong flow of visitors to the city's attractions. Construction Most real estate contacts reported that single-family home sales rebounded in January and February after slowing at the end of last year. Home sales in January and February generally surpassed last year's disappointing levels. However, construction was slow in many areas because of extreme cold. Inventories of new and existing homes continue to run low in several markets. Most Realtors and builders expect a strong spring housing market. Contacts from across the District report that commercial and multifamily real estate markets continue to improve. Low vacancy rates and higher rents continue to propel new apartment and office development. While most commercial projects continue to be build-to- suit, several speculative developments are underway and more are anticipated this year. The retail market remains strong in most areas, but several contacts report an increase in vacancy rates after some stores went out of business following the holiday season. Most real estate professionals continue to anticipate that new commercial and multifamily construction will grow this year. Financial Services Contacts in the banking industry described overall loan demand as mixed. As in previous reports, contacts in most areas report that commercial lending is stronger than consumer lending. Mortgage refinancing continues to increase, but several contacts noted that auto lending remains weak and credit card delinquencies are on the rise. Wages and Prices Wages generally remain stable in the region since the previous Beigebook, even with scattered reports of labor shortages. Most contacts say that prices paid for materials and finished goods have remained essentially unchanged. Fewer contacts than in our previous survey anticipate that prices paid for materials or finished goods will increase over the next few months.