Summary Reports from contacts in the 12th District in early 1996 suggest generally solid economic activity, albeit with some sources of slack reported. Despite respondents' concerns regarding moderation in the national economy, most expect stability or improvement in their respective regional economies. In the recent period, District manufacturing activity has been particularly strong in the industrial machinery and high-tech sectors, although international competition had a moderating influence on the former. Activity in high-tech services, such as computer software, also exhibits ongoing strength. However, retail sales markets are weak. Despite reported capacity constraints and wage increases in some sectors, upward pressure on wages and prices is limited overall. Business Sentiment District respondents, while continuing to expect some slowing in the national economy, are looking for improved conditions in their respective regional economies. Among respondents, about half expect that national unemployment will increase and national economic growth will be below its long-run average, while most of the others expect average growth and no change in unemployment. In contrast, an overwhelming majority of respondents expect more rapid growth in their region than in the U.S. as a whole. Consistent with this, 80- 95 percent of respondents expect improved or constant business investment, housing starts, consumer spending, and trade balances in their respective regions. Retail Trade and Services Weakness in retail sales apparently continued after the holiday season. Respondents in several areas noted that consumer demand is insufficient to sustain existing retail establishments. Sales of soft consumer goods, particularly apparel, continue to be low. In contrast, service industries, particularly those that are technology-intensive, are expanding rapidly. District sales of computer software and financial consulting services to Europe and Japan reportedly are increasing. A major California supplier of telecommunications services reports increased demand and sales in late 1995, particularly to businesses. Also in California, recent state mandates have lowered electricity prices by 6 percent for all customer classes. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity is moderate to strong in the District. Industrial and construction machinery sales remain high in Utah and Nevada, with many firms facing capacity constraints; a sharp jump in order backlogs was reported. Despite this strong domestic demand, prices are being held down by foreign competition, and export markets for machinery reportedly are weak. However, continued expansion of semiconductor manufacturing plants is underway in Oregon, with similar expansion of high-tech manufacturing underway or planned in Washington state. In general, District exports of high- tech components to the Pacific Basin countries (and to a lesser extent Europe) are rising. Also, strong commercial airline demand, particularly for exports, is boosting production by District airline manufacturers and their suppliers. In contrast, a District metal products company reports reduced export demand and lower levels of investment spending in its industry. Some District manufacturers, in sporting goods, for example, reportedly are moving production offshore. Also, demand and prices for most Pacific Northwest forest products continue to hover at low levels. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Agricultural activity in the District is mixed. Apple exports from Washington have been weak, but strong grain demand (particularly for wheat) has pushed prices to new highs throughout the District. District beef production reportedly is being propped up largely by high levels of exports to Canada and Asia. In contrast, with the exception of cotton growers, Central California farmers report strong sales and low inventories. However, the Alaskan salmon industry is suffering due to a worldwide glut, and recent heavy flooding in the Pacific Northwest caused uncertain but perhaps substantial inventory losses on some crops. Real Estate and Construction Reports suggest stable to moderately improving conditions in the District real estate and construction sectors. In Southern California, commercial vacancy rates are declining slowly from high levels, but rental rates have not increased sufficiently to spark substantial new commercial construction. In the San Francisco Bay Area, current commercial vacancy rates are low and recent sale prices for existing homes have exhibited modest increases. In Arizona, home building reportedly has peaked, but apartment construction continues unabated. Rebuilding following the recent severe flooding in Washington and Oregon is expected to increase construction activity in affected regions in the near future. This will place additional pressure on the very tight Oregon construction industry; wages reportedly increased 13 percent in this sector during the year ending in January, primarily due to extensive nonresidential construction activity. Financial Institutions District bank respondents generally report strong earnings and good credit quality, despite stiff competition for loans and deposits. Slight easing of business loan demand is reported in California, but the level is still high, and consumer credit demand is increasing in the state. Furthermore, California thrifts reportedly are benefiting from improved residential housing markets.