Economic activity continues to be sluggish in the First District. Retail results range widely, with apparel and hardware stores seeing sales decline. Other stores are doing better, but all express concern about consumer confidence. Manufacturing activity is generally level with a year ago, although some respondents have seen sales rise. Price pressures continue to be moderate. The residential real estate market is picking up in most of New England, with home prices stable. Mutual fund firms in the region continue to expand their assets under management and increase employment. Retail First District retailers report mixed results in January and February. Sales activity compared with year-earlier levels ranged from double-digit declines to an increase of over 10 percent. Apparel and hardware contacts suffered the most serious losses, but the apparel merchants saw a slight improvement in late February and hope for sales equal to a year earlier throughout the spring. By contrast, non-apparel non-hardware retailers anticipate sales growth of 4 to 15 percent over the next several months. Even those doing well agree that consumers' worries about job layoffs and the economy are causing them to postpone discretionary purchases. In response, contacts are generally keeping inventories low and employment stable. Wage increases of 3 to 5 percent are planned for this year. Only one contact plans significant store expansions. Retailers report most vendor prices remain stable; by exception, the price of paper has fallen 10 percent over the last few months, following a steep rise in the first half of last year. Lumber prices are starting to rise, in anticipation of the spring construction season. contacts note increased profits in 1995. Tourist offices report strong activity this winter throughout the region, thanks to exceptional skiing conditions. International travelers remain the fastest-growing and most lucrative segment of visitors to New England. Manufacturing Most First District manufacturing contacts report fairly flat sales relative to a year ago. By exception, sales of industrial parts, equipment used in commercial construction, cabinetry, and some consumer nondurables have risen. A number of respondents indicate recent swings in business. Some makers of consumer products report that sales were weak in January and stronger in February, a pattern they attribute to weather fluctuations. A parts manufacturer is benefiting from an end to temporary shutdowns of automotive assembly plants. Other respondents, including a paper manufacturer and two firms supplying discount chains, report being hurt by greater-than- anticipated reductions in inventories on the part of their customers. Most manufacturers report that selling prices are flat or up modestly, except for a decline in paper product prices since late 1995. Trends for materials costs vary: contacts indicate rising prices for specialty chemicals and plastics and resins, falling prices for wood pulp and most grades of paper, mixed trends for polyester products, and stabilized prices for lumber and cotton (although the level of cotton prices reportedly remains high). Some manufacturers lament that strong competition is limiting their ability to raise prices, while others expect higher profit margins this year because of weaker pressures from materials costs. Half the firms contacted report that employment is little changed from its year-earlier level, the remainder report decreases. Any new hiring tends to be selective rather than across-the-board. Several contacts indicate growing wage pressures. capital spending patterns vary widely. The largest increases are reported by businesses that are developing new products or shifting production locations. Other contacts indicate a pause or decline following last year's heavy capital investments. Residential Real Estate The residential real estate market in New England is reported to be doing well. After a slow winter, with low activity almost everywhere (caused partly by the large amount of snow), business has been picking up. Respondents report increased interest, high attendance at open houses, and more people putting their houses on the market. Although an increase in sales has not yet followed, all contacts are optimistic about the spring season. Prices have been stable, with no major changes in either direction, and contacts do not anticipate any large changes in the near future. While inventories of existing houses are in line with the level of activity and sales, respondents report overbuilding and excess supplies of new homes in some areas. Interest rates remain low, despite small increases in some places recently, and credit is widely available. Most contacts express "guarded optimism." The major worry is that interest rates will increase. The state of the local economy remains a concern in some areas. Connecticut and Maine continue to do poorly. Conditions in Vermont, Rhode Island, and the suburbs of Boston have improved, however. Nonbank Financial Services Investment management firms report increased assets under management in the first two months of 1996. Sales of equity funds were very strong, but bond funds were in net liquidation. Most respondents raised employment in the first two months of 1996 and plan further increases during the rest of the year.