Overview The pace of economic activity in the Fifth District quickened in late January and February, but some respondents indicated that the recent uptick was a rebound from January's weather-induced sluggishness. Retailers, manufacturers, and service producers reported that growth picked up in their industries. Growth in the real estate and financial sectors also increased. Employment agencies saw stronger demand for temporary workers. Area port representatives, however, reported slower business. Abundant snowfall boosted tourism at ski resorts, but harmed farmers.Retail Trade Preliminary results from a monthly mail survey of District retailers pointed to stronger retail conditions in February. Growth of sales revenues, employment, wages, big-ticket sales, and shopper traffic increased, while inventory growth slowed. Survey respondents said that retail prices rose more slowly in February than in January. They expected price increases during the next six months to be in line with their January forecasts. Service Production Service-sector growth increased in February, according to preliminary results from a monthly District mail survey. Several respondents reported that inclement weather adversely affected their businesses. Despite the weather, revenues and employment grew somewhat faster, although wages grew more slowly. Service prices rose more slowly in February than in January. Respondents expected larger price increases during the next six months than they had in January. Manufacturing Most indicators of manufacturing activity increased in February from their January levels, according to preliminary results from a monthly mail survey of District manufacturers; this was the first such increase since September. Survey respondents reported that shipments, new orders, order backlogs, and the workweek increased; employment changed little. They were more optimistic about their prospects during the next six months than they had been in January, but they continued to report a scarcity of skilled labor. Manufacturers indicated that finished goods prices declined in February from the month before, but that raw materials prices rose. Compared to January, respondents expected raw materials prices to rise less rapidly during the next six months. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity in February was above that in January and a year ago. Ski resorts in North Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia reported unusually good business as record snowfalls continued to boost winter bookings above year-ago levels. Contacts expected better-than-normal business and some price increases during the next six months. Port Activity Representatives at District ports indicated that both export and import levels in January were lower than in December and a year ago. Severe weather hampered activity in Hampton Roads (Va.) and Baltimore. Contacts continued to expect exports and imports to increase during the next six months. Temporary Employment A telephone survey of Fifth District temporary employment agencies indicated that the demand for temporary workers rose in February, although it was unchanged from a year ago. One contact in Columbia, S.C. said that increased business development boosted demand in that area. Temporary workers' wages rose faster than the general price level during the past year. Most contacts expected wages to stabilize but demand to rise during the next six months. Finance District financial institutions reported that lending activity increased during January and February. Demand changed little for consumer loans but increased for commercial and mortgage loans. A mortgage lender in North Carolina said that refinancings boosted activity at his institution to its highest level in several years. Compared to December, interest rates were lower on commercial and consumer loans, and higher on mortgage loans. Residential Real Estate According to a telephone survey of District real estate agents and homebuilders, residential real estate activity increased in January and February. Housing starts, sales, and prices were up compared to December. Participants reported a strong increase in customer traffic, which they attributed to recent declines in mortgage interest rates. Building permit levels changed little throughout the District, except in West Virginia where they decreased. Construction wages were steady and some materials prices declined slightly. Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate activity strengthened in January and February. Leasing activity increased sharply and commercial rents rose in most areas of the District. Office vacancy rates decreased, except in the District of Columbia and Maryland where they were unchanged. The availability of prime office space continued to tighten, and many contacts reported shortages. Respondents in Virginia and the Carolinas said that some new construction was underway in their areas. Agriculture Adverse weather damaged some crops and farm buildings in recent weeks, according to District agricultural analysts. Near-record January and early February snowfalls and low temperatures stunted late-winter, small-grains crops in some areas. Heavy snows also collapsed numerous farm buildings, and flooding caused scattered crop losses in several District states. On the plus side, the cold temperatures benefited fruit growers in the Carolinas by preventing fruit tree overbudding.