Overview The Tenth District economy continued to grow at a moderate pace during the past month. Retail sales increased modestly and homebuilding activity strengthened. Manufacturing activity slowed slightly. Energy activity remained sluggish, while weak profits in the cattle industry held down farm income. Labor markets remained tight in much of the district, but wages generally held steady and retail prices rose only slightly. Retail Sales Retailers report sales increased modestly over the past month and remained above last year's level. Some retailers report sales of apparel were strong, while sales of home furnishings were weak. Retailers generally expect sales to strengthen during the next few months. Most retailers indicate satisfaction with their inventory levels and expect to hold inventories steady in the months ahead. Automobile dealers report sales increased slightly last month from the sluggish pace the month before, and most dealers are optimistic that sales will strengthen further this spring. Manufacturing District manufacturers continued to operate at high levels of capacity last month, although there were some signs of slowing in manufacturing activity. No production bottlenecks due to capacity constraints were reported. Manufacturing materials were readily available, and most manufacturers noticed a decline in lead times required to obtain materials. A January survey of district manufacturers indicated most manufacturers were trimming materials inventories and were planning further inventory reductions in the months ahead. Housing Builders generally report housing starts increased last month and remained above last year's level. Construction of single-family homes improved, while multifamily construction remained steady. Builders expect housing starts to strengthen further with warmer spring weather. Sales of new homes increased slightly last month and remained above last year's pace. Builders report the inventory of unsold homes was generally lean and new home prices continued to rise, especially for low-priced homes, which have been in shortest supply. Building materials are readily available, and builders anticipate little change in the availability or prices of materials in the next few months, despite a recent rise in lumber and concrete prices. Most mortgage lenders expect mortgage demand to strengthen further in the months ahead. Banking Banks generally report loan demand was unchanged last month, holding loan-deposit ratios steady. Some banks report gains in consumer loans and home mortgage loans. Commercial and industrial loans, home equity loans, residential construction loans, and commercial real estate loans all held steady, while agricultural loans declined slightly. Security investments held steady. Most bankers report gains in total deposits, supported by increases in MMDAs and small time and savings deposits. Demand deposits, NOW accounts, large CDs, and IRA and Keogh accounts held steady. All respondent banks reduced their prime rate last month, and most expect a further cut in the near future. Most banks also reduced their consumer lending rates, with half of the banks anticipating further reductions. Lending standards were generally unchanged. Energy Activity in the district energy industry slowed further last month. Demand for heating fuel boosted natural gas prices, but crude oil prices remained weak. As a result, the number of drilling rigs operating in the district declined slightly and remained well below last year's level. Agriculture Dry, cold weather is eroding yield prospects for the district's winter wheat crop. Much of the crop is in poor condition in the district's primary wheat producing region in central Kansas and central Oklahoma, where the moisture shortage is most severe. The crop is generally in fair condition in other parts of the district, although timely spring rains will be required to ensure normal yields. With uncertain prospects for this year's harvest and tight global inventories, crop prices have risen to the highest level in years. High feed costs and low cattle prices continue to hold down profits in the district cattle industry. Most district feedlots continue to earn modest profits, due to low prices for young feeder cattle. Low feeder cattle prices, however, have resulted in losses for district ranchers, who have begun to trim the size of their breeding herds. Agricultural bankers expect continued weak profits in the cattle industry to limit improvement in overall farm income in 1996, even though higher crop prices may boost profits for crop producers. Wages and Prices Upward pressure on wages and prices in the district remains subdued. Parts of the district continue to report tight labor markets, especially for entry-level workers, but reports of rising wages are few and widely scattered. Manufacturers report declining prices for some raw materials, such as steel and aluminum, and rising prices for other materials, such as rubber and some chemicals. Retailers report only slight price increases and most expect prices to remain stable in the months ahead.