Summary Economic activity in the Seventh District remained at relatively high levels in January and February, although growth remained slow and was uneven across sectors and sub-regions. Despite adverse weather in February, retail sales improved somewhat from a soft January. Housing and construction activity remained relatively strong in the District, buoyed by a pickup in first and second-time home buyers. Manufacturing and banking activity, however, has become increasingly mixed since the beginning of the year. Job creation in the District continued to outperform the nation as a whole in early 1996 and labor markets remained very tight, while increases in wages and prices remained subdued. Retail sales Retail sales were generally described as soft in February, but better than January. Several large retail chains reported that February sales for their Midwest stores were slightly above the company-wide average, with one retailer showing the region as its second strongest market. Sales of durable goods and electronics are still leading other market segments, although one large retailer cited a shift toward soft goods, particularly in women's apparel. A general manager at a Chicago area shopping mall stated that their retailers were still experiencing double-digit growth in sales, but felt that their stores' sales were better than the regional average. Weather conditions in February slowed sales in the region and, in some cases, led to some stores being temporarily closed. A survey of small independent retailers in Michigan showed that retail sales continued to be slow in January, but retailers' optimism for the spring season remains high. A recent report also showed that supermarket sales in both the Chicago and Detroit areas were growing faster than for the nation as a whole over the last two quarters. A consumer finance company reported an increase in consumer bankruptcies, but consumers in the District appear to be in better financial shape than those in other regions of the country. Several auto dealerships reported that sales had been improving over the last several weeks, but a dealer noted that used car sales had softened. Housing/Construction Housing and construction activity remained relatively strong during January and February despite severe winter weather. Realtors and bankers across the District reported that sales of existing homes in January were up considerably in year- over-year comparisons and that this trend had carried over into February. Homebuilders also reported that sales of new dwellings were up markedly from January last year, and a national survey showed both increased traffic and sales in the Midwest region for February. Several contacts attribute the continued high demand for housing to strength in the labor markets and low mortgage interest rates. Sales have been strong in lower and medium-priced homes, led by first and second-time buyers; sales at the upper end have been slow for several months. Several contacts reported that industrial real estate demand was quite strong in early 1996 and prospects for construction opportunities were increasing. Capacity utilization at factories that supply materials to the construction industry remained at historically high levels in January and February, but growth appears to be flat. One cement producer in the District reported that the industry continues to add capacity in expectation of increased public construction and steady demand from residential construction. Despite continued high demand, sources reported that prices remain in check at both the producer and consumer levels. Manufacturing Activity Manufacturing activity in the District was mixed in February. Purchasing managers' surveys from around the District varied, with the Chicago area showing contractions among the its key components (including prices) and Milwaukee continuing to show fairly solid expansion. A diversified producer of equipment and basic materials reported that machinery orders and backlogs in January generally were up from a year ago, but food machinery orders have been weak and signs of weakness are emerging in chemical markets. Several auto suppliers reported that sales were down in January and February, but one supplier attributed part of the weakness to its strong sales in December and noted that it was expanding capacity to support expected orders over the rest of the year. After a sharp decline in December, an appliance industry analyst noted that sales in January were flat year-over-year, with small appliances accounting for much of the recent slowing. A heavy construction equipment producer indicated that sales through February were about in line with an expected slowdown that has been underway since mid-1995. Several steel producers, however, reported orders for both sheet and structural steels to be quite strong, with one mill receiving orders at a rate 10 percent above its capacity through the second quarter. Banking Banks generally reported that the level of lending was quite strong, but the patterns of growth varied by location and market segment. A large bank in the Chicago area reported that loan demand was still increasing across most market segments. Several Michigan banks described lending activity as strong, but C&I lending (especially to auto suppliers) was off from peak levels last year. Also, global and large corporate markets were strong, while middle markets have slowed since January. However, a western Illinois bank reported strong growth in total loan demand, with its commercial and consumer loan volume up significantly. Most banks indicated that mortgage lending was increasing, although as much as one-half or more of the activity was in refinancing. Several banks cited lending to retailers as their only weak market, with several small retailers in the process of going out of business. Labor markets Labor markets remained tight through January and February, although job growth appears to be less robust than the same period last year. Labor market analysts in most of the District's metropolitan areas detect little change in employment numbers from late 1995 outside of normal seasonal variations, although a downturn was evident in average weekly hours worked in those areas dependent on durable manufacturing industries. Help- wanted advertising ticked up in January, although it remained below last year's high levels. A national survey of hiring plans suggested that employers in the Midwest region were the most optimistic in the nation for job growth heading into the second quarter of 1996, with gains anticipated in the nondurable manufacturing, wholesale and retail trade, and service industries. Durable manufacturers were less optimistic about job growth in this survey. Temporary help agencies reported that labor shortages continued to be their major concern. Most sources reported that upward wage pressure was modest.