The major portion of the data for this report was gathered in a survey of fourteen of the larger savings and loan associations in the Eleventh District. The associations surveyed reported: (1) Most associations had recorded deposit inflows since November 1969, with the weighted average rate of inflow of 4.0 per cent (2) The majority of associations had recorded increases in loans ranging from 2 to 15 per cent, yielding the weighted average increase of 4.4 per cent since November of last year (3) Commitments at most of the institutions surveyed were up substantially over last year (4) Nearly two thirds of those surveyed had recently reduced their rate on home mortgages, with the most quoted rate in the range of 8 1/2 per cent (5) About half of those surveyed felt that residential construction was being limited by huge construction costs (6) About half of the associations are now making loans on mobile home purchases, although these are fairly new loan programs (7) Most report that the price range of homes being constructed has risen somewhat in recent years, with the largest volume being constructed in the $20,000-$30,000 price range. General economic conditions continued to show a very moderate upward trend in the Eleventh District. Unemployment in Texas continues to remain well below the national average, while industrial production has edged upward slowly in recent months. Eleven out of the fourteen savings and loan associations surveyed had recorded fairly substantial deposit inflows since November of last year. Deposit inflows ranged from 2 to 15 per cent, with many in the 7 to 8 per cent range. Moreover, twelve of the fourteen showed an increase in loans over the period since November 1969, with eight of these associations recording annual growth rates for loans in excess of 5 per cent. Most of the associations had commitments exceeding those in November 1969, with four of the associations showing commitment levels more than twice those of November of last year. Of the associations surveyed, nine reported that they had reduced the rates they charged on home mortgages. Most of these had reduced their rates by 1/4 to 1/2 per cent in recent months. The majority of the associations reported a current quotation of 8 1/2 to 8 3/4 per cent on home mortgages. Rates varied somewhat, with some associations charging 1 to 1 1/2 per cent origination fee. The 8 1/2-percent rate was typically on "prime" or "good conventional 80 percent" loans. The majority of those surveyed felt that residential construction is being limited somewhat by construction costs. However, several felt that reduced interest rates might offset a portion of this high cost of construction. Should rates decline and additional mortgage money become available, most felt that only a very limited amount of demand for housing would continue to be deferred because of construction costs. However, one respondent noted that he expects the main volume of home building during the next five years to continue under the FHA or HUD programs. Half of those surveyed reported that they are now making loans on mobile home purchases. Since this type of loan is relatively new, only a few of the associations were able to supply figures on their volume of mobile home paper outstanding. Most of those participating in mobile home financing estimated that only a small portion of their deposit inflow will be channeled into such paper. One association estimated that in the future, about 6 to 8 per cent of its deposit inflow would go into mobile home financing. The majority of those surveyed indicated that homes in the price range of $20,000 to $30,000 constituted the largest volume of homes being currently constructed in their areas. Most indicated that the general price range of homes being constructed had risen substantially (20 percent plus) since 1967. However, three of the respondents indicated that a greater number of lower priced homes are being built now than in 1967, so that the proportion of higher priced homes being constructed has declined. A number of those surveyed indicated that, as funds become available, both short-term and long-term interest rates should decline and there should be an increase in the number of homes being constructed in all price ranges. Current levels of economic activity within the Eleventh District seem to indicate that the regional economy bottomed out sometime late this summer and is now showing a very moderate upward trend. Modest gains in industrial production have been made, as the decline in durable goods manufacturing was more than offset by high levels of nonmanufacturing and oil activity. The decline in durable goods was due mainly to declines in transportation equipment and machinery. The return of the auto workers to the GM assembly plant at Arlington, Texas, should have a positive effect on durable goods production; however, this may be partially offset by further downward adjustments in the aerospace industry. As a whole, industrial production in Texas during the first ten months of 1970 has shown a significantly smaller increase than in previous years. There have been recent modest gains in employment in the District, with the unemployment rate for Texas running substantially below the national average. However, projected growth in the labor force is expected to outstrip gains in employment. Construction, particularly nonresidential construction, has shown some improvement in recent months, while department store sales in November were up only 3 per cent over the same month last year.