Overview The Tenth District economy appears to be growing at a healthy pace. Residential construction and retail sales are increasing and the demand for bank loans is strengthening. In the farm sector, profit margins on cattle are higher. District energy activity, however, has slowed further. Retail prices remain generally stable, while manufacturers' input prices are increasing slightly. Retail Sales Most district retailers report moderate sales increases over both the past year and the past month. Led by strong sales of spring and summer apparel, total sales are expected to increase steadily in the next few months. Keen competition has kept retail prices stable and is expected to preclude any significant price increases in the near term. Most retailers are satisfied with current inventory levels, although some respondents expect to increase inventory purchases in response to rising demand. Most auto dealers report sales increases from last month and anticipate further increases in the next few months. Financing is available for inventories, and potential buyers are generally able to obtain loans. Dealers are generally maintaining current inventory levels. Manufacturing Purchasing agents report slightly higher input prices compared with a year ago. Few expect further price increases in the near term. Most agents report no problems with input availability nor with changes in lead times, and they generally predict no major difficulties in acquiring inputs for the remainder of the year. Several respondents are reducing current inventory levels and intend to continue doing so in the near term. A number of respondents also report their firms are operating closer to capacity, but most report no bottlenecks. Few purchasing agents report they have yet been seriously affected by the Teamsters strike. Energy District energy activity has slowed further as natural gas prices have softened and crude oil prices have remained low. Sources in Kansas report declines in oil production, with continued closings of high-cost stripper wells. Overall, the number of drilling rigs operating in district states fell from 237 in February to 218 in March. The rig count continued to fall in the first half of April to 212. Housing Housing starts remain significantly higher than a year ago and have generally increased over the past month. Builders expect starts to remain strong for the rest of the year. Sales of new homes are also strong, causing a very low inventory of unsold homes despite the increases in starts. Prices of building materials remain high. Slight increases in delivery times have been reported. Mortgage demand has declined as refinancing has lessened, mainly due to increasing mortgage rates. But most respondents expect demand to remain about constant for the rest of the year, due to the expectation that rates will soon level off. Banking Loan demand at most reporting banks strengthened last month. Most banks report higher demand for consumer loans, residential construction loans, and commercial and industrial loans. Demand was generally unchanged for commercial real estate loans and agricultural loans, and mixed for home equity loans. Loan-deposit ratios were mostly unchanged from the previous month, and investments were flat. Almost all respondents raised their prime rate last month and expect further increases in the near term. However, most banks left their consumer lending rates unchanged and anticipate no change in those rates in the near future. Lending standards were unchanged. Deposits at most banks were up. Demand deposits and money market deposit accounts were generally higher. NOW accounts and small time deposits were constant to higher, while large CDs were mixed. Agriculture The district's winter wheat crop remains in good condition, having escaped with only minor frost damage in early April. Spring rainfall has improved crop prospects in wheat-growing regions that had been unusually dry, but additional rainfall is needed to ensure normal wheat yields. While preparing fields for spring plantings, most district farmers are waiting to plant corn and soybeans until warmer and drier weather arrives. Cattle feedlots in the district are operating near capacity. Producers are avoiding a buildup of cattle inventories, however, even though higher cattle prices and lower feed costs in recent weeks have boosted profit margins. Producers remain cautious because larger supplies of beef, and competing meats are expected to push cattle prices down later this year. District bankers report generally steady retail sales activity and no adverse effects of the recent trucking strike activity in their rural lending areas. Spending was somewhat restrained, however, by lower incomes in some farm-dependent communities, which suffered large crop losses in last summer's heavy rains and flooding.