General Business Conditions Business activity in the Fourth District continues to be strong, particularly in areas related to automobile and capital goods manufacturing. Although retailers noted some slowing in sales and traffic during April, the overall performance of' the retail sector appears to be holding steady. District auto dealers continue to report shortages in many models, including some imports. A strike of roughly 70,000 Teamsters has virtually shut down major union trucking establishments; nonunion operations and alternative transport firms appear to have filled the void. There were no reports of transportation bottlenecks. Manufacturing In February, manufacturing employment in Ohio was up 1 percent from a year earlier, somewhat dampened by the severe winter weather in the region. Reports from manufacturers suggest that production recovered fully by mid-April and that new hires are slowly becoming more common. Although domestic orders appear to be holding at a relatively high level, many manufacturers noted improved demand from foreign sources. Capital goods producers were uniformly upbeat concerning business conditions. Orders books were active across a broad range of capital goods categories, and were particularly strong in the vehicles area. Heavy and light truck production was at or quickly approaching capacity, and orders backlogs were thought to be commonplace. Respondents cited continuing softness in defense-related and aerospace industries, however. Retailing According to most sources, retail spending in March was very strong, although some spending retrenchment and a reduction in consumer traffic was noted during the first half of April. It is unclear whether the slowdown represented a payback from the strong March numbers, or was a downshift in underlying demand. Several retailers thought April tax payments may have had a damping influence on spending. Confidence may have been affected by interest rates, although rates on most types of revolving credit were reported to be little affected by the recent upward pressures. Some concern was noted that higher mortgage rates suggested the potential for slower home sales that may eventually damp durable goods spending, although no such slowdown was thought to have occurred yet. Durable goods sales continue to lead the retail categories. Apparel sales have picked up from the low levels posted earlier in the year, although pricing of apparel goods was still characterized as very competitive. While interest rates in the market for auto loans have headed slightly higher (about 1/4 to 1/2 percentage point), new car demand remains robust. A few auto dealers noted increases in the popularity of leasing, which may have minimized the interest-rate effects. Auto dealers reported inventory shortages in several models, even some import makes. Auto producers have not altered their sales forecast for the year, although the full impact of the recent interest rate increases has apparently introduced an element of uncertainty. More hiring is occurring in some areas, but few auto-related manufacturers plan to expand capacity to meet current demand. Loan Demand Bankers in the District report mixed loan demand, although consumer lending activity continues to outpace business credit needs. While some bankers reported growth in various commercial and industrial loan categories in early April, most indicated that credit demands here remained about even. Some bankers suggested that high corporate profitability and improved liquidity may be prompting businesses to fund investments internally. Consumer lending activity was reported to be brisk, even outside the auto-related categories. Loan demand has picked up from mid-March and the early April numbers appear to be good. Competition from nonbank credit sources remains stiff, however. All of the bankers contacted anticipate further increases in the federal funds rate this year, although they differ in opinion concerning the timing of such actions.