Overview Business contacts reported that the Southeast economy continued to expand at a healthy pace in April. Retailers noted that spring sales improved over last year's levels, and the majority of auto dealers also saw year-over-year sales gains. Manufacturers in most sectors reported increases in new orders, shipments, and production, although defense-related producers continue to struggle. Bankers said that overall loan demand was more mixed than in recent months, mainly because of large but anticipated declines in residential mortgage refinancings. Single-family home building remained strong throughout the District, while commercial real estate markets also continued to show improvement. Wages and input prices were reported to be stable by most manufacturers. However, firms linked to the home building industry experienced rising materials prices as well as continuing upward pressure on wages, particularly for skilled construction workers. Consumer Spending District retailers reported that spring sales have been better than expected this year, with several noting double-digit year-over-year sales growth. Durable goods continue to sell well, but most of the recent improvement in sales have come from nondurable goods. Sales of women's apparel have improved considerably over last year's disappointing levels, while men's and children's clothing sales have been quite strong. Despite this improvement in sales, there were no reports of upward retail price pressures. Most retailers remain cautious in their expectations for this year and continue to maintain relatively lean inventories. Auto dealers continued to report year-over-year increases in sales, and most were optimistic about their prospects for the remainder of this model year. Tourism Tourism officials in Florida expect a 4 percent increase in visitor traffic in 1994 following a "disappointing" 1993. The state hopes to see an increase in tourists from the improving economies of Latin America and the Caribbean. However, the number of European visitors remains down in south Florida. Several travel agencies that cater mainly to Europeans have been forced to lay off employees because of the dramatic reduction in bookings. By contrast, Mississippi's gaming industry reportedly has created 16,000 jobs directly and "energized" tourism in the state. In New Orleans, first quarter figures suggest record occupancy levels at local hotels. Manufacturing Manufacturers in most sectors reported increases in production, shipments, and new orders in April, as well as positive expectations for future activity. The major exceptions to this rule are defense and aerospace producers who continue to struggle in the face of domestic defense cutbacks and weak foreign markets. Production and shipments of household textiles remain strong, and there have been recent reports of improving demand for apparel fabric. Capital equipment producers have noted increases in recent business activity. Several consumer goods manufacturers announced plans for plant expansions to be completed in the District within the next year. Regional suppliers to the automotive industry are reported to be running at near capacity, while temporary help agencies that supply workers to the manufacturing industry continue to report strong demand for their services. Construction Realtors across the Southeast generally reported that single-family home sales were strong in April. According to several contacts, the recent increases in mortgage financing rates have created a slight surge in buying activity which they expect to taper off over the next few months. Inventories of homes for sale remain low in many areas, stimulating price increases in the most active markets. New homes continue to be among popular sellers, keeping building contractors extremely busy in most areas. Commercial and multifamily real estate markets continue to improve slowly. Commercial and office vacancy rates have declined throughout the District while leasing has improved. Although no new speculative construction has been announced recently, commercial real estate agents in several areas have noted an increase in discussions about possible speculative projects. In addition, rising apartment rents have encouraged new multifamily construction in several District cities. Financial Services According to District bankers, loan demand was more mixed in April than it had been in previous months. Most institutions reported declines in home mortgage lending as the recent uptick in rates caused refinancings to plummet. However, these declines were anticipated, and there was general agreement that it was too early to tell if rate increases would affect other loan areas. Commercial loan demand generally was reported to be moderate to strong, although contacts in several areas reported some slowdown in business lending. Wages and Prices Most contacts continued to report no change in the prices paid either for raw materials or for prices received for finished products. Although home builders reported that lumber prices have begun to stabilize, they noted that the prices of other building materials, as well as wages for skilled construction labor, have continued to rise.