Overview Continued economic growth was indicated by increased activity in manufacturing, real estate, agriculture, and in the service- producing sectors, including ports and tourism. Trends in the financial sector were less certain; mortgage refinancings declined, but consumer and commercial loan demand remained fairly strong. Upward pressures on prices were reported for manufacturers' inputs and for building materials. Wages rose in the service-producing sectors, and commercial rents increased in some areas. Consumer Spending Retailers in all District states reported improved business in March. Employment changed little, but most other indicators were up. Retailers expected consumer demand to increase in the next six months. Respondents reported a 0.4 percent increase in retail prices in March, and they expected prices to rise 1.1 percent during the next six months. Manufacturing Our mail survey of manufacturers indicated increased District factory activity in March. Shipments, new orders, and backlogs grew, but employment changed little. Raw materials prices rose by less than the general rate of inflation; finished goods prices were steady. Several contacts doubted that production cost increases could be passed along to purchasers. While most producers agreed that cost increases were limited so far to raw materials, one manufacturer noted that "price pressures were no longer dormant." Manufacturers expected higher shipments and prices over the next six months but little change in employment. Service-Producing Sectors Our mail survey of District service-producing firms showed increased activity in March. All sectors reported increased revenues, and respondents expected stronger demand in the next six months. All sectors except wholesale trade reported higher wages. The real estate and health services sectors reported increased employment; all other sectors indicated no change. Respondents reported a 0.2 percent price increase during March, and they expected prices to rise 1.0 percent during the next six months. Ports Representatives at the District ports of Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk) indicated that exports were generally higher in March than in February, while imports were unchanged. Compared with a year ago, imports were higher and exports remained about the same. All three ports expected exports to increase faster than imports during the next six months. Tourism Tourist activity at District hotels, motels, and resorts was higher in the first three weeks of April than in March or in April 1993. Myrtle Beach noted that group bookings rose because of the increased interest in golfing packages offered in that area. Almost all of the respondents indicated that spring bookings were higher than a year ago, and most respondents expected tourist activity to improve further relative to year-earlier figures during the next six months. Finance District financial institutions indicated that credit conditions were mixed during the last six weeks. Interest rates on commercial loans increased faster than did rates on consumer loans. Loan demand remained fairly strong. Some commercial lenders noted that a few businesses were delaying new projects because of interest rate uncertainty, but most commercial and consumer lenders were optimistic that demand would remain relatively strong, given current rates. Mortgage originations were steady, but refinancing activity fell substantially as residential mortgage rates rose. Mortgage lenders were cautious about future loan demand because of their fears of further rate increases. Residential Real Estate Housing Our contacts reported that District residential real estate activity remained strong in late February and March. Improved home sales were attributed to an improving economy. Most real estate agents indicated no discernible negative effect on sales from recent mortgage rate increases, though they observed heightened uncertainty among buyers. Most homebuilders indicated that housing starts were slightly fewer than expected during the period, and some attributed the slower pace to higher mortgage rates. Home prices changed little, and lumber prices rose only slightly, although prices of other building materials increased sharply. Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate contacts reported declining vacancy rates throughout the District. Demand for space was especially strong in North Carolina, and contacts in Charlotte and Raleigh indicated that shortages of space might occur soon. Contacts reported little new construction in most areas, although some speculative warehouse construction was underway in the Carolinas. Rental rates increased in North Carolina and in parts of West Virginia, while rents in other states remained unchanged. Charlotte contacts predicted larger rental rate increases in 1995; some Raleigh contacts, however, speculated that rent increases might end in 1995 with the addition of new space. Large discount retailers continued to dominate retail leasing except in Charlotte, where contacts noted increased leasing by smaller shops. State Revenues State governments' March revenues suggested reasonably strong economic growth across the District. North Carolina's revenue growth remained strongest; the District of Columbia's was weakest, though inflation-adjusted revenue growth there was no longer negative. Several states reported very strong retail sales, particularly of automobiles. Agriculture Generally favorable weather assisted farmers with their spring field work. Corn planting progressed at an above-normal pace across the District. Field preparation for soybean, tobacco, and peanut planting was also reported to be ahead of schedule. Cattle had been put into pastures, which were in generally good condition. Farmers were optimistic that the hay crop would be sufficient to replenish the stock depleted as a result of last winter's severe weather. The peach crop was in fair-to-poor condition. On a pessimistic note, dry weather was reported in eastern South Carolina.