Summary Economic activity is strong in the Twelfth District outside of California and Hawaii. In California, conditions remain weak, although positive signs are starting to emerge. Business sentiment in the Twelfth District continues to strengthen. Retail and tourist activity are reported strong or improving in most parts of the District. Manufacturing activity is mixed, with weak aerospace markets and strong investment in computer and communications equipment. Export markets for District agricultural products continue to expand. Construction and real estate activity is booming in many parts of the District, while residential markets are starting to show signs of life in California. Loan demand is reported to be strong or improving in most parts of the District. Business Sentiment Sentiment among Twelfth District business leaders continues to improve. About two-thirds of respondents expect real national growth to exceed 2 1/2 percent during the next four quarters, compared with half of respondents in February. Growth is expected to be especially strong in Arizona and the intermountain states, and weaker than the national average in California and Hawaii. Well over half of respondents now expect the inflation rate to rise during the next four quarters, while less than half expected rising inflation in February. Retail Trade and Services Retail and service industry conditions are reported strong in most of the District. Sales in the intermountain states are reported strong for a wide range of products, but the truckers' strike reportedly is starting to cause problems for retail distributions. Respondents in the Puget Sound area report strong sales of specialty products. In California, food store sales improved in March. Conditions in the tourism industry are strong. In Las Vegas, bookings at the new hotels are very strong. In Salt Lake City, robust tourist and convention demand has boosted hotel occupancy rates above 90 percent. California ski resorts reportedly have had a good season. Hotel occupancy in San Diego, Orange County, and West Los Angeles has been better than expected, with strong advance summer bookings reported. Conditions for San Francisco's hotel industry are described as excellent. In Hawaii, where visitor activity has been disappointing, the visitor count increased 8 percent between February 1993 and February 1994. In California, demand for non-cellular telephone services has increased since the end of 1993. In Washington, cellular phone subscriptions are reported stronger than anticipated. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity remains mixed in the District. Aerospace firms continue to report sluggish conditions and excess capacity. One machinery manufacturer reports strong first-quarter sales, and expects product prices to increase 3 to 4 percent this year. In April, Boeing introduced its new 777, which could be approved for commercial use by May 1995. A producer of computers and related hardware expects sales to increase 5 to 10 percent in 1994, a slower rate of growth than in 1993. Strong investment is reported in a wide range of industries throughout the District, as companies replace outdated computer and communications equipment in order to increase productivity and improve their competitive positions. As of mid-April, interest rate increases had not lowered 1994 capital spending plans significantly. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Agricultural conditions generally are good throughout the District, although reduced water allocations for farmers in California's Central Valley are causing concern. California exports of cotton to China have increased. Other agricultural export markets also have strengthened, particularly Japan, Korea, and Mexico. Beef and apple exports have risen. Increased imports of barley from Canada and strawberries from Mexico have lowered prices for those crops. Real Estate and Construction Real estate markets are reported to be strong in most District markets outside California and Hawaii. Double-digit home price increases are reported in Tucson. In Phoenix, home prices and residential construction are increasing and the commercial vacancy rate is declining. Virtually no Class A office space is reported to be available in some parts of the Phoenix area. Low vacancy rates also are reported in northern Utah. In California, home sales activity has picked up in recent months, and prices appear to be stabilizing after a prolonged decline. Construction activity is reported to be booming in all parts of the West except California and Hawaii. The increased activity has strained capacity and lengthened development times in some areas. Shortages of skilled construction workers are reported in many areas. In addition, prices for some construction materials are increasing. In California, housing permit activity has improved in recent months, although the pace of activity remains low by historical standards. Financial Institutions Loan demand is reported strong in most parts of the District. In Arizona and the intermountain states, deposit growth and loan demand have been strong, and the rate of problem loans continues to decline. Bank contacts in Oregon and Washington report strong profits with rising deposits and loan demand. Several contacts report sharp declines in refinancing demand. In California, respondents note some increase in lending activity, especially in home mortgages and real estate construction, although overall conditions remain soft.