Summary The Seventh District economy expanded modestly in July and August, according to most contacts, despite sluggish consumer spending growth. The overall manufacturing sector strengthened further, with continued gains in consumer durable goods production joined by hints of recovery in several capital goods industries. Residential real estate transaction activity softened somewhat, but remained sufficiently brisk to support gains in household goods production. The outlook for commercial construction and supplier industries was little changed. Bank asset and retail deposit growth in the District was restrained by both supply and demand factors. Consumer Spending Contacts generally indicated that growth in District consumer spending remained sluggish. One large general merchandise chain reported relatively flat sales in August (in nominal dollars, year- over-year) in the District, in line with the national average, and stated that regional differences in sales results have narrowed markedly over the year. A large discount chain reported that its sales in larger markets in the District declined in August (compared to last year), in part due to competitive pressures, while sales rose nationally. A retailers' association in Michigan reported that members continued to experience depressed traffic and sales levels, but conditions have stabilized in recent months. A liquidation trustee reported that retail contacts have experienced some upturn in sales in the past month. A large automaker reported that car sales declined in recent weeks, but still remained stronger than earlier in the year. However, anticipated strengthening in sales to fleets over the next two months is expected to boost total sales. Manufacturing The recovery in the District's manufacturing sector continued in recent weeks. Gains in consumer durable goods production were joined by signs that some capital goods production began to turn upward, although weak spots still exist. Purchasing managers' surveys in Detroit, Indianapolis. Western Michigan and Chicago showed increasingly widespread expansion. Detroit reported some softening in responses from nonautomotive businesses, but widespread gains were again recorded in the automotive sector. The results from Indianapolis registered a significant turnaround in the second quarter, with an important contribution from the automotive sector. Western Michigan showed continued solid expansion in July and August, with new signs of improvement from several capital goods respondents. Chicago's index moved strongly into expansionary territory in August, after gradually rising from low levels early in the year. Each of the monthly surveys recorded consistent inventory liquidation thus far in 1991, both during the contractions recorded early in the year and during the recoveries seen in more recent months. Most anecdotal reports also suggested strengthening among consumer durable goods producers and their suppliers. A large steel producer reported that shipments in the summer months were better than expected, with important contributions from shipments to auto and appliance manufacturers, although most customers still show little inventory rebuilding. A large electronics firm reported that semiconductor order growth continued to trend upward, with orders from automakers making an important contribution. Semiconductor orders from the previously weak capital goods sector were expected to turn up m the fourth quarter. An electric utility in Michigan reported its first monthly year-over-year gain in power sales to industrial customers in August. Several small suppliers to the auto industry reported new hiring activity, although a large automaker plans to use overtime rather than new hiring to meet labor requirements for the balance of the year. A producer of paper containers reported that demand from appliance producers has been stronger than expected, and a large appliance manufacturer stated that the industry trough had passed. Reports from the capital goods sector were mixed. but generally better than earlier in the year. A July survey of metalworking firms reflected improved expectations for business conditions, although appraisals of current conditions remained weak. After recording flat sales in the first half of 1991, a heavy machinery producer reported solid order gains in recent months. A large manufacturer of heavy-duty trucks reported renewed softness in industry orders. A producer of a wide range of specialized machinery reported that order gains remained relatively soft, however with improved orders for food processing equipment offsetting continued weakness elsewhere. A large manufacturer of construction equipment experienced a renewed slump in orders in August and stated that dealers continued to cut inventory amid low sales expectations. Real Estate/Construction Several contacts reported that the sharp pickup in the District's residential real estate sector earlier in the year may have softened somewhat recently, but activity is still running at respectable levels. A large District realtor reported that residential sales gains have been running in line with seasonal expectations in recent months. After home sales rose sharply in the second quarter, housing permits in Indianapolis rose fairly sharply in July. A realtors association reported that home sales in Wisconsin remained brisk in the summer, and 1991 sales are running at a record pace. A producer of gypsum wallboard reported that industry shipments into the Midwest strengthened in July. An appliance distributor reported that orders from homebuilders in the Midwest had Improved over the past several months, with continued gains expected in the second half of the year. Year-to-date industry appliance shipments to dealers in the Midwest were essentially flat, according to one large manufacturer, which is relatively strong performance compared to much of the rest of the country. Commercial real estate activity generally remained subdued in August, although the pickup in District manufacturing activity may be beginning to boost the demand for industrial space. A brokerage firm reported that rental rates for downtown Chicago office space continued to decline in the second quarter, with rising vacancy rates joined by negative net absorption. A large District cement producer tied to commercial construction reported continued year- over-year shipments declines, with little near-term improvement expected for shipments in the Chicago metropolitan area. A group of small commercial lighting companies anticipate a 3 to 5 year depression in sales for nonresidential building in the Chicago market. The office market in metropolitan Detroit remained soft in recent months, according to a brokerage firm, with vacancy rates continuing to rise. Few District banks reported new tightening in standards for new commercial real estate loans in recent months, but financing generally remained difficult to obtain, with strict preleasing and borrower equity requirements in place. Lending terms have become increasingly costly, particularly for loan extensions. One District retail store chain recently completed a large equity offering designed to allow the retailer to internally finance its store expansion program. Previously, expansion had been constrained by the inability of real estate developers to obtain construction financing from banks. Banking Reports from several large banks in the District reinforced earlier indications that both demand and supply factors worked to suppress bank credit and retail deposit growth in June and July. Several large banks reported that demand for retail deposits was dampened by increasingly competitive returns on nondeposit instruments and sluggish economic conditions in deposit market areas. At the same time, banks themselves reported somewhat less aggressiveness in promoting retail deposits. Generally, slower asset growth led to some softening in the desired growth for wholesale liabilities, but neither increased deposit insurance premiums nor slower asset growth affected the desired growth for retail deposits. Still, several respondents indicated that they were likely to be less aggressive in attracting retail deposits over the balance of the year. Most banks contacted reported weak asset growth since the end of May. Each bank that reported weak asset growth cited softer loan demand, although other factors (including planned reduction in lending and securitization) were also cited. At the same time, most banks reported little change in standards for commercial and industrial leading in recent months, after more frequent indications of tighter standards being adopted earlier in the year. Weaker loan demand was generally concentrated among larger corporate customers, with banks noting several reasons, including lower financing requirements for inventory and capital investment, as well as alternative nonbank and/or capital market financing sources. Some reports of increased loan demand from medium-sized and smaller firms arose, with one bank reporting increased capital spending by smaller businesses.