Summary Economic conditions remain weak in much of the Twelfth District, with areas that have felt the impact of the recession reporting few signs of recovery. In intermountain areas where the recession has had only modest effects, economic conditions continue to be much better than in the District as a whole. Wage and price increases throughout the District are modest, and consumer spending continues to be sluggish. Slow retail sales have hurt sales tax revenues in many jurisdictions, further squeezing already-tight state and local government budgets. Manufacturing activity remains mixed, with the aluminum industry reporting worsening conditions. Some District farmers report disappointing fruit harvests, due either to poorer than expected quality or disappointing volumes. Construction and real estate activity remain slow, especially in California. Loan demand continues to be sluggish in California, while Utah financial institutions report relatively good conditions. Business Sentiment Economic expectations of Twelfth District business leaders improved slightly in September. While a majority of respondents still foresee GNP growth of less than 2.5 percent during the next four quarters, only 5 percent now expect the next four quarters to be characterized by recession. More than half of respondents project improvement during the next four quarters in business investment, housing starts, and consumer spending. Expectations about inflation also seem to be improving, with 61 percent of respondents now projecting some reduction in inflation during the next four quarters compared with 50 percent six weeks ago. Wages and Prices Overall wages and prices are increasing modestly in the Twelfth District. Retail prices are reported to be relatively stable, while prices have fallen during the past year for many food products. Prices also are reported down significantly for some office electronic products. Increases in health care costs still outpace the general inflation rate by a wide margin. Wage increases continue to cluster in the 3.5 to 5 percent range throughout the District. In California, however, tight state government fiscal conditions have forced many middle and upper level state employees to take 5 percent salary cuts. Retail Trade and Services Consumer spending remains weak in most parts of the Twelfth District. A soft goods retailer reports that sales still are very sluggish in California, Oregon, and Alaska. For his chain, sales are slightly stronger in Washington and very good in Utah. In California, higher sales tax rates are blamed for some of the slowdown in retail sales. Auto sales remain weak in much of the District, although some improvement was noted in Arizona and among higher-end cars in Idaho. Year-over-year declines in newspaper advertising volume have moderated somewhat in recent months, but July volume was still l8 percent below its year-earlier level. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the West is mixed. Metals industries continue to report weak conditions. Layoffs are mounting in the aluminum industry, with one firm in the Pacific Northwest reportedly cutting employment by more than 50 percent. Aluminum and zinc prices are down, while copper prices have stabilized recently. Employment in the aerospace industry continues to suffer from defense cuts. Helicopter manufacturing employment in the US. is expected to fall 2 percent in 1991, despite improving exports. Boeing continues to receive orders for commercial aircraft although the pace of new orders has slowed in recent months. In Utah, some non-durable manufacturing industries report growth in orders of 8 to 10 percent from last year. A chemical products manufacturer reports that orders have picked up in recent months, but remain 7 percent below a year earlier. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Agricultural conditions in the Twelfth District have weakened somewhat. Fruit growers in California report that harvests were large, but some growers had trouble meeting size and quality standards. Hot August weather in Washington reduced the volumes of the apple and grape crops. Many commodity prices are reported down from a year ago. Potato prices are off 50 percent, while hay prices are reported down 15 percent. Beef prices also are lower as a result of increasing inventories and low demand. In California, agricultural exports continue to expand despite a curtailment of the state's export promotion program as a result of budget cuts. The forest products industry remains in poor shape, although one report from the Pacific Northwest suggests that some lumber mills have begun to rehire workers. Lumber prices have fallen back after a sharp run-up in the second quarter. Forest products industry employment in Oregon and Washington remains well below its level a year ago. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate activity remain sluggish in many parts of the Twelfth District. In California, home sales are reported to have slowed following the rebound seen this spring, while median home prices seem to have stabilized. Commercial markets in southern California continue to languish, with vacancy rates in downtown Los Angeles expected to rise as new space comes on line. Residential prices also are reported soft in Washington, and residential construction activity there has fallen sharply since last year. Conditions in Utah and Idaho are much better, with relatively strong prices and sales activity. The median home price is reported up in Arizona. Financial Institutions Conditions at Twelfth District financial institutions remain mixed. In California, loan demand continues weak for most categories of loans while credit quality is deteriorating and write-offs are increasing. Loan demand also is reported soft in Arizona, although auto and residential real estate loan volumes have improved. Banking conditions in Utah remain solid.