Overview District economic activity continued mixed in August, but respondents remained optimistic about business prospects for the next six months. Manufacturing activity rose somewhat but retail sales and exports declined. Employment was steady in manufacturing but lower in retail businesses. Loan demand remained weak except in home refinancing. Conditions in agriculture improved as timely rains helped crops. Consumer Spending Our regular survey of retailers indicated that, on balance, retail activity weakened in August. Total sales apparently fell somewhat along with sales of big ticket items. Shopper traffic was lighter than in July. Inventories were drawn down and employment declined. Wages rose as did wholesale and retail prices. Looking forward, retailers were optimistic about the business outlook for the next six months. They anticipated increases in shopper traffic and sales. Most expected little change in employment and inventories but looked for wages, retail prices, and wholesale prices to rise further. Manufacturing Our regular mail survey of manufacturers indicated that District factory activity improved in August. Increases were reported in shipments, new orders, and the length of the workweek. Inventories apparently shrank while employment, prices, and other business indicators remained steady. Manufacturers identified poor sales, government red tape, competition, and excess capacity as their biggest problems. Manufacturers remained optimistic about general business conditions and their own prospects for the next six months. They foresaw increases in virtually all categories of activity including capital expenditures and exports. Port Activity Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), reported that exports were generally lower and imports higher in August than in July. Compared to a year ago, exports were up and imports were down. Contacts at District ports expected export growth to outpace import growth throughout the fall and winter. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts in the District suggested that tourist activity through the Labor Day weekend was unchanged both from July and a year ago. Over half of the respondents reported that fall bookings were about even with last year's, and almost all expected tourist activity to remain about even with a year ago in the months ahead. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that credit availability was generally steady over the last six weeks. Several banks, however, said they had tightened standards for commercial loans. Commercial loan demand was reported soft, but the demand for residential mortgages firmed as refinancing activity increased. Most banks expressed a continued willingness to make new consumer loans. Banks indicated that they had lowered their rates on some types of loans following recent declines in money market rates. Almost half reported that they had reduced their rates on consumer and mortgage loans. None, however, said that they had lowered commercial loan rates. Housing Residential real estate activity remained sluggish in most of the District according to a telephone survey of housing analysts and real estate lenders. Most respondents reported little change in prices, sales, or construction starts, though lower interest rates were said to have slightly boosted sales in some localities. Respondents in the Washington, D.C., area noted a glut of homes for sale and for rent. Most respondents reported little speculative residential construction. One exception to the generally sluggish housing market in the District was Greenville, SC, where activity was reported to be strong. Agriculture Recent rainfall generally improved the condition of District crops according to farm analysts. Corn and soybean yields were expected to be normal in Virginia, West Virginia and Maryland and somewhat above normal in the Carolinas. Dry conditions were noted in some areas of Maryland, however, and poor pasture conditions were reported in some regions. In the Carolinas, recent rains have damaged crops somewhat and kept farmers in some localities from spraying their fields for insects.