Summary District economic activity continues to pick up, as many firms report increases in sales and employment. District retailers report good-to-strong sales of most types of merchandise during the holiday and post-holiday period. Unseasonably strong single-family home construction is providing a boost to the regional economy. Bank loans continue to increase at a sample of large District banks. District rice producers have been buoyed by an order from Japan and continued strong prices. Consumer Spending Preliminary reports suggest that sales during the 1993 holiday and post-holiday periods were strong. Although double-digit sales growth was reported in isolated cases, the majority of respondents estimated a 4 percent to 6 percent increase over the 1992 holiday season. Many respondents cited increased advertising and a growing economy as reasons for strong sales levels. Deep discounting has generally not been necessary to move merchandise. In most cases, inventories are at (expected) low levels. Contacts indicate that furniture and household goods, including appliances and towels, were the best sellers this holiday season. Sales of toys and consumer electronics were also strong. Women's apparel and shoes, usually a strong source of holiday sales, did not do as well as expected. Most retailers are anticipating a solid 1994, with some predicting as much as 10 percent sales growth in the first half of the year. Similarly, most auto dealers contacted are expecting 1994 to equal or surpass 1993's strong year. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity A number of District firms report increases in sales and employment, continuing the growth from last quarter. A refrigerator manufacturer and a maker of bathroom fixtures both report strong sales, driven primarily by increased housing starts; replacement of older equipment also contributed. A poultry processor plans to add more than 250 jobs when it expands a hatchery and processing plant to increase production 33 percent. In Arkansas, new chrome plating and food processing plants have led to 300 new jobs, while a Mississippi maker of construction materials broke ground for a new plant that will employ 150 workers by the end of the year. An airline with a District hub will overhaul its operations and add about 300 ground workers. The six-month-old United Mine Workers of America strike has ended, returning about 3,000 to their District jobs. A few minor setbacks were also reported, some of which had been anticipated. For example, an auto plant closed on schedule in December, eliminating the remaining 1,200 jobs. A bakery that was displaced by airport expansion dismissed 525 workers when it finally closed its doors, another anticipated closure. An auto parts maker will close its plant early this year, laying off more than 260 workers. A defense contractor let another 200 workers go after the cancellation of a program. A national temporary employment agency's recent survey of the St. Louis area reveals that 12 percent of the firms plan to hire during the first quarter of 1994. This is down from 20 percent one year ago. Nationally, 18 percent plan to hire this quarter. According to a recent survey of District firms by the National Federation of Independent Businesses, 14 percent think now is a good time to expand. However, 23 percent of the surveyed firms increased their average selling price between August and November, while just 10 percent reduced prices. About 24 percent plan to increase prices during the first quarter of 1994 (4 percent will decrease prices), and 35 percent plan to increase capital expenditures. More than half of the respondents felt current inventories were at acceptable levels, but only 43 percent will keep them at the same level during the first half of the year. The remaining 57 percent are split between increasing or decreasing their inventories. Construction and Real Estate Single-family homebuilding is unseasonably strong in many parts of the District, as builders scramble to start and finish projects that were delayed in the latter half of 1993 because of wet weather. Multifamily housing construction, after several years of stagnating, also appears to be on the upswing as apartment occupancy rates and rental prices edge up. Sales of new and existing homes have been relatively strong in the District lately, as they have been nationally, and avenge selling prices continue to rise. Banking and Finance Total loans on the books of 11 large District banks rose 1.7 percent during the last two months of 1993 after a 0.1 percent increase in the prior two-month period. All three major categories of loans- commercial, consumer and real estate-registered positive growth rates in the November-through-December period. Consumer and real estate loans posted stronger growth rates in the last two months of 1993 than they did during the same period of 1992. Agriculture and Natural Resources A major processor of rice and rice products recently announced its first-ever shipment of rice to Japan because of that country's poor harvest; the company expects to make additional sales this year. Contacts in the rice industry expect a 10 percent to 15 percent increase in planted acreage this spring because of recent strong prices and a reduction in government set-aside requirements. Crop prices have risen sharply in most District states recently, while livestock prices have retreated slightly. Increased domestic and foreign demand for cottonseed oil continues to bolster processor profit margins, which have tripled in the last few months. A contact in the coal industry reports that prices are expected to soften with the end of the coal strike. Through mid-December, coal production was running ahead of last year's pace in western Kentucky and Indiana, but behind in other District states.