Overview Most sectors improved further since the last Beige Book. Activity in the manufacturing, retail and wholesale trade, tourism, and real estate industries grew. Loan demand was mixed, and exports declined at District ports. Worse-than-normal weather impeded agricultural activity. Manufacturing Our regular mail survey of manufacturers indicated that District factory activity continued to strengthen in December. following improvements reported in our two previous surveys. Manufacturers saw increases in shipments, new orders, and exports. Order backlogs and employment changed little, while raw materials inventories declined. Raw materials prices rose faster than finished goods prices, but both rose by less than recent general inflation rates. Most manufacturers expected shipments and exports to increase and raw materials inventories to remain unchanged over the next six months. They expected employee hours to increase somewhat, employment to remain the same, and the recent modest price increases to continue. Retailers and Wholesalers Our survey of mailers and wholesalers indicated very strong revenue growth in December. All other indicators grew, including employment and seasonally adjusted sales of big-ticket items. Respondents reported that their prices rose by less than the general inflation rate; they did not expect their price increases to exceed that inflation rate during the next six months. Demand for retail and wholesale services was expected to rise in the same period. Ports Representatives at District ports-Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that on average, exports and imports were unchanged from November to December. Compared with a year ago, imports and exports were generally unchanged. All three ports expected exports to increase faster than imports during the next six months. Tourism Hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourism was higher in December than in November and a year ago. Respondents attributed the improvement to increased popularity of vacation packages and growing consumer confidence. Almost all respondents noted that their bookings this winter were higher than last winter's, and all expected tourist activity to continue to improve during the next six months. Finance District financial institutions indicated that credit conditions were mixed during the last six weeks. Respondents stated that commercial loan demand was moderately higher, while consumer loan demand was unchanged. Commercial and consumer loan rates were steady. Residential mortgage demand fell during the last six weeks; mortgage originations were off slightly, and refinancing activity was sharply lower. Residential mortgage lending rates were up slightly. Residential Real Estate Real estate agents and homebuilders reported that seasonally adjusted residential real estate activity strengthened throughout most of the District in November. Most respondents indicated moderate to strong growth in home sales and housing starts. Home prices apparently changed little during the period, but most homebuilders reported that lumber costs continued to increase significantly. Several homebuilders reported increases in the cost of wallboard and other building materials. Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate analysts reported that leasing activity improved in most of the District during December because of stronger consumer confidence and job growth. Vacancy rates declined in all areas, and some landlords raised rents, either directly or through reduced concessions. Some businesses began construction of facilities they had previously delayed; however, very little speculative activity was reported. While activity was growing in Maryland and the D.C. suburbs, some analysts were cautious about the sustainability of that growth. Agriculture Below-normal temperatures and above-normal precipitation in recent weeks hampered District agricultural activity somewhat. Weather conditions delayed late fall and early winter sowing of small grains across much of the District. Ranging livestock were subjected to stress from the weather, and cattle producers in the western part of the District expressed concern over survival rates during the winter calving season. Above-normal snowfall was expected to reduce hay stocks, already low because of last summer's severe drought.