As 1993 ended, most economic sectors in the Ninth Federal Reserve District showed signs of growth. Commercial and residential construction is very active in virtually all areas of the district. Manufacturing, particularly in small and midsize firms, continues to grow. Refinery production is up, demand for construction-related forest products remains high and prospects for iron mining are positive. Conditions are unchanged in agriculture, which ended 1993 with much lower grain stocks than a year earlier and essentially stable livestock output. Consumer spending through the holiday season continued improving at the pace set earlier in the fall. After a slow start, winter recreation enterprises report good business. Unemployment rates remain substantially below those of the United States as a whole and employment is up from year-earlier levels. There is little evidence of upward pressure on wages or prices. Construction and housing One city building inspector in Minnesota characterized 1993 as "a year that is nothing short of phenomenal." Construction was the strongest sector of the economy across the Ninth District throughout 1993, with no apparent slackening as the year ended. News media, district directors and other sources reported continued strong residential construction across the district and active commercial building in many areas. Residential construction is booming in western Montana, Sioux Falls, S.D., and Rapid City, S.D. 1993 was also a record year for construction in Fargo, N. D., and Moorhead, Minn. Construction of new retail facilities continued in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Publicly bid commercial and heavy construction in Minnesota and the Dakotas for the year through November was 12 percent ahead of year-earlier levels. Manufacturing Manufacturing continues to grow. "Many firms reported strong third-quarter growth and the fourth quarter was even better," said one director, speaking of manufacturers in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. He also noted that most manufacturing firms were now running at 85 percent of capacity, up substantially from a year ago and that small and medium firms had the most growth in orders. Moreover, a director from South Dakota reported an increase in the establishment of small and midsize manufacturing facilities in that state. Growth in industrial electricity use continues above the five-year trend rate in Minnesota and South Dakota. Manufacturers of builders hardware, residential heating equipment controls and other construction-related products report excellent sales. Responding to continuing high demand for building materials, a Canadian firm reportedly plans to establish a building-board plant in North Dakota that will use wheat straw and other crop residues as raw material. Natural resource industries Refinery output in December was up from year-earlier levels, largely due to 1993 capacity expansions in Minnesota and Montana. Crude petroleum production was marginally below year-earlier levels, reflecting aging of producing wells, and drilling activity was essentially unchanged. Production of oriented-strand board and other wood-based plywood and lumber substitutes is very strong in Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan. But the forest products industry's outlook continues to vary by product and location. A recent timber sale in Montana set a record for stumpage prices in that state, reflecting generally declining quantities of timber offered for sale. The paper industry continues to experience overcapacity and low prices, but output is essentially stable. "Mine operators are generally optimistic about 1994 and expect output to exceed levels of the previous three years," said one iron ore industry spokesperson. This is in spite of a slight output decline in 1993 relative to 1992, largely related to a strike- related closing of one mine. Other mining is essentially stable. Copper and gold output is unchanged from earlier in the year. Copper prices have recovered slightly from lows set earlier in the year, allaying fears of possible mine closings. Agriculture Agriculture showed little change in the final weeks of 1993. Grain prices were generally high, reflecting low stocks due to adverse growing conditions earlier in the year. Fall tillage in corn and soybean growing areas was completed at near normal levels prior to freeze-up, in spite of wet conditions earlier in the year. In northwestern Minnesota and eastern North Dakota, though, these tillage operations lagged considerably, which may retard spring 1994 planting operations. Cattle, hog and sheep slaughter numbers are essentially the same as a year ago, while prices continue to trend slightly downward. While prices for feeder cattle have declined somewhat from earlier in 1993, they remain high relative to other recent years, apparently reflecting confidence in farmer and feeder expectations of continued profitability. Consumer spending and tourism Reports from a broad range of sources including directors, advisory council members, news media, mall managers, vehicle dealers associations and company representatives reaffirmed earlier reports that consumer confidence has rebounded from earlier in 1993 and that consumer spending is growing. In late 1993, passenger vehicle sales were strong across the district and several sources noted that pickups and sport utility vehicle sales were particularly strong. Retail reports on holiday season sales of general merchandise are largely positive. The manager at a large Minneapolis-area mall reported very strong sales as did counterparts in Sioux Falls, S. D., and in Grand Forks and Fargo, N. D. And a director from Montana reported that holiday season sales in that state were very good and generally well above 1992 levels. But a few firms reported a disappointing holiday season; one major retailer had December department store sales that were essentially flat from a year earlier. In the closing weeks of 1993 the winter tourism and recreation season picked up momentum, particularly in Montana. Lack of snow in several ski areas had retarded activity in November and early December, but snowfalls just before Christmas improved business considerably. Ski resorts in Montana report strong holiday seasons that helped recovery from the slow start, although decreased traffic from Canada continues to hamper resorts near the border. One source reported that snowmobile rental companies at Bozeman, Mont., and near Yellowstone National Park were booked through March. Snowmobilers and skiers were traveling to the Upper Peninsula of Michigan and northern Wisconsin at slightly higher than year-earlier rates at the end of December and in early January. Tourist traffic to the Black Hills was steady in South Dakota. Employment. prices and wages With unemployment rates below 4.5 percent in Minnesota and the Dakotas, Ninth District labor markets continue substantially better than the national average. These three states contain over 80 percent of the Ninth District labor force. In November, employment numbers in all district states stood 1 percent to 3 percent above year-earlier levels. Directors, industry sources and news media report virtually no upward price movements except for those grains where 1993 production was curtailed by flooding. In the last weeks of 1993, retail gasoline prices stood 5 to 7 cents below 1992 levels in Minneapolis- St. Paul and even sharper drops were reported in some other areas. District and branch directors report very limited wage increases for both private and public sector workers, in some cases limited to maintenance of health insurance coverage in the face of premium increases.