Summary Economic weakness persists in California, particularly in the southern part of the state, but much of the rest of the Twelfth District shows signs of solid economic growth. Weakness in manufacturing, construction, and real estate markets continues to drag down the Los Angeles area economy, while other regions of California are showing signs of bottoming out or of modest improvement. Economic activity also lags in western Washington, reflecting retrenchment in aerospace, and in Hawaii, reflecting a weak visitor industry. Oregon and Arizona, however, are experiencing solid growth across several sectors. Furthermore, the economies of intermountain states continue to boom. Business sentiment is strong, and holiday retail sales were reported good in most markets. Business Sentiment Sentiment among Twelfth District business leaders has improved significantly in recent months. Almost all of the respondents expect the real economy to expand during the next four quarters at a rate at or above trend growth. This proportion is up from three-quarters in November, two-thirds in October, and one-half in August. Furthermore, it is the highest such proportion in the six-year history of this survey. Respondents from California and western Washington, however, expect their regions to have slower growth relative to the nation. Retail Trade and Services Retail activity is reported generally strong, with contacts in most District markets reporting good retail sales for the Holiday season. In Utah and Idaho, retail sales were reported nearly 10 percent above their year-earlier level. Sales of automobiles and household durables associated with new-home purchases accounted for much of this increase. A contact in Oregon reports that sales were 6 to 8 percent above a year earlier, with major strength in appliances and housing-related expenditures and relative weakness in apparel spending. In the Puget Sound area, retail sales were reported generally good. In the California central valley, a contact reports stronger sales than a year earlier-and also strong post-holiday sales. In the Los Angeles area, retailers were reported to be generally pleased with holiday sales, but the sales peak was late this year as customers waited for price discounts. Post-holiday sales were reported particularly strong. San Diego retailers reported good holiday sales stimulated by advertising and discounting. Another contact, however, reports that sales in southern California were worse than in northern California, reflecting the divergence in overall economic conditions. Conditions in service-related industries are mixed. A contact in the newspaper industry reports that advertising activity was disappointing in 1993, but showed an increase in both volume and revenue during the fourth quarter. The southern California visitor industry is reported in the doldrums. Hotel occupancy in the region was very weak in the fourth quarter, and while bookings for early 1994 are above a year earlier, it is uncertain whether actual occupancy rates will improve. Hotel occupancy also is reported to be still dropping in Hawaii. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity is mixed in the District, with lingering weakness centered in aerospace and defense-related industries. Layoffs in these sectors continue in several District states, with southern California and western Washington most affected. Aircraft- quality aluminum continues to be sold at substantially discounted prices, with both raw material and fabricated products prices reported soft. In contrast, the electronics industry in Oregon is reported to be performing well. A contact in the electronics industry reports that spending on personal computers and network peripherals continues to grow rapidly. A contact in the California telecommunications industry reports a slight gain in both usage and new business in the fourth quarter, but that gain is still well below what is typical of a recovery. Capital spending plans are reported generally cautious in most industries. Commercial lenders in Oregon report that, with the exception of the high technology industry, the general sentiment is one of caution for capital spending in 1994, with the level planned at or slightly above the 1993 level. A contact in the auto dealer industry, however, reports that low interest rates are having a beneficial effect on capital expenditures. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Most contacts report a generally favorable outlook for agriculture. Average farm prices are below year-earlier levels due primarily to lower prices for beef and wheat. Production of potatoes is reported to be down in Idaho. However, Washington and Oregon contacts report strong potato production. Midwest weather conditions were reported to create unusually strong markets for the frozen vegetable industry in the Pacific Northwest during the fourth quarter of 1993. Another contact, however, projects continued weak conditions in the seafood industry with both demand and prices decreasing. Several contacts report that agricultural exporters are pleased with the passage of NAFTA and the successful conclusion of the GATT negotiations. Construction and Real Estate District construction and real estate markets are mixed. Weak conditions are reported in southern California, both in residential and nonresidential markets. A contact in northern California reports that commercial real estate is still weak, with office rents expected to remain low for several years, and virtually no transactions in the transfer of office properties. In contrast, contacts in Idaho report continued strong housing construction as growth in jobs and population has resulted in vigorous demand for housing. Several contacts report shortages of skilled construction labor. Financial Institutions Varied conditions are reported across District financial markets. In California, a contact reports that the banking industry continues to show signs of modest improvement, including stronger asset quality and a slight pickup in loan demand. Much of the improvement, however, has come from large banks. Small and medium-sized institutions remain under pressure, showing less improvement in asset quality and greater exposure to real estate loans. A contact from the Puget Sound area reports somewhat weaker loan demand and increasing price competition for commercial and industrial loans and also for mortgage loans. Vigorous rate competition for loans also is reported by contacts in Utah.