Economic activity continued to expand with signs of acceleration in some sectors, according to most Federal Reserve District reports. Consumer spending, especially on household-related items, was strong during the holidays in most districts. Manufacturing activity strengthened, and the manufacturing employment picture improved somewhat. Residential real estate sales and construction grew robustly in almost all districts. Commercial real estate leasing and construction improved in some districts but remained generally sluggish. Loan demand increased somewhat in many districts. Several districts reported weather-related stress to agricultural crops, but crop prices rose and crop income prospects improved. Little upward pressure on wages and prices was indicated by almost all districts; however, reports of lumber price increases were widespread, and scattered labor shortages were reported. Weak economic conditions continued in southern California. Consumer Spending Retailers in most districts enjoyed strong sales that met or exceeded expectations during the holiday season, although the Boston District's retailers were disappointed with their modest gains. In the Atlanta, Dallas, and New York Districts, stores offered earlier- than-normal holiday price discounts and in the Chicago, St. Louis, and New York Districts, retailers indicated they advertised more than normal. Retailers in the Boston, Kansas City, Philadelphia, Richmond, and St. Louis Districts expected continued economic growth to boost retail sales moderately this spring. Most districts reported robust sales of electronics and other home- related durables during December. Retailers in the Dallas, Minneapolis, St. Louis, and San Francisco Districts indicated that automobile sales were strong, and those in the Kansas City and St. Louis Districts expressed optimism about prospects for sales of new cars and trucks in 1994. In contrast, the Atlanta, Chicago, Cleveland, Dallas, New York, and San Francisco Districts reported that apparel sales were weak; Kansas City, however, reported generally strong apparel sales. Manufacturing Most districts reported that manufacturing activity strengthened. Reports from Cleveland and Minneapolis indicated that some factories were operating near capacity, and several districts reported signs of stronger demand for manufactured products. The Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, and Minneapolis Districts noted increased demand for construction-related products, while stronger demand for automotive products was cited in the Boston, Chicago, and Cleveland reports. Personal computer orders strengthened in the Boston and San Francisco Districts, while capital equipment orders rose in the Cleveland District. The Atlanta District reported continued strength in textile orders arising from residential home sales and refurbishing. Defense-related manufacturing, however, continued to be sluggish in the Boston, Atlanta, and San Francisco Districts, and apparel manufacturing apparently was lackluster in the Atlanta and Dallas Districts. Looking forward, manufacturers in several districts expected continued economic expansion in early 1994 and looked for continued improvement in business conditions. Most reports of manufacturing employment indicated improvement. Producers in several districts increased employment a little and those in some districts planned to add workers if economic growth continues. Manufacturers in the Boston and Richmond Districts expected stable employment levels in 1994. Defense-related cutbacks in employment, however, were reported in the Atlanta, Cleveland, St. Louis, and San Francisco Districts, and apparel manufacturers in the Atlanta District reported further cutbacks in employment and a shortening of the factory workweek. In the New York District, several major manufacturers announced layoffs. Real Estate Reports from most districts indicated substantial improvement in residential real estate sales and construction. Home sales increased in the Boston, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, and Kansas City Districts. Homebuilding also increased in these districts and in the New York, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts, where residential construction activity exhibited unusually strong growth. San Francisco contrasted continued weakness in residential sales and construction in southern California with robust housing activity in Idaho. Commercial real estate activity was mixed. Office vacancy rates fell in the Richmond and Atlanta Districts. New York reported some reduction in Manhattan vacancy rates, but that market was still considered weak. Commercial construction increased in the Richmond, Dallas, and Minneapolis Districts. Commercial real estate in California remained weak according to the San Francisco report. The New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts reported tight markets for building materials and/or construction labor. In several districts, short supplies of these inputs delayed some construction projects; in some districts, the tightness in supplies of inputs led to higher construction costs, which placed upward pressure on housing prices. Finance Commercial banks in most districts reported that loan demand strengthened somewhat. Bankers in the Atlanta, Cleveland, Dallas, Kansas City, Philadelphia, Richmond, and St. Louis Districts reported moderately higher commercial loan demand. Sluggish commercial lending was reported by banks in the New York District, however, and some lenders in the San Francisco District noted that commercial loan demand had weakened slightly. Consumer loan demand was reported to be moderately higher in the Atlanta, Cleveland, Dallas, Kansas City, New York, Philadelphia, and St. Louis Districts but was unchanged in Richmond. Atlanta and Cleveland noted especially high levels of automobile lending, and Kansas City and Dallas indicated increases in residential real estate lending. Atlanta and Cleveland noted slight declines in mortgage refinancings, although activity remained high in both districts. Bankers in the New York, Philadelphia, and Richmond Districts reported sharp declines in refinancing activity. Wages and Prices Most districts noted little general upward pressure on prices or wages, although several reported increases in the prices of lumber and building materials and scattered labor shortages. The Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts reported that virtually all retail and manufacturing prices were little changed, and Chicago reported that the prices paid by manufacturers declined. Energy prices declined in the Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. Prices of aircraft-quality aluminum were soft in the San Francisco District, but steel prices rose in the Cleveland and Chicago Districts, and copper prices were somewhat higher in the Minneapolis District. Increases in the cost of lumber were indicated by the New York, Richmond, Kansas City, and Dallas reports. The Richmond, Dallas, and Atlanta reports also indicated higher building materials prices. In the Atlanta and Dallas Districts, housing prices were moving up somewhat, and the New York report indicated that higher materials prices could soon lead to upward pressure on housing prices. Some districts reported tight labor markets for specific workers. Atlanta, Kansas City, and San Francisco indicated a shortage of skilled construction workers, and Chicago observed that finding skilled production workers and tradespeople was increasingly difficult. Dallas reported a short supply of temporary workers and a rise in their wages, but indicated that competition was keeping wages stable in other business services. Agriculture Several districts indicated that worse-than-normal December weather and the lingering effects of abnormal summer and fall weather disrupted agricultural activity, but farm income levels remained steady. Snow and cold weather delayed winter small grain planting in the western part of the Richmond District, and cold weather delayed tillage in parts of Minnesota and North Dakota. Dry weather in the Dallas District damaged pastures, winter wheat, and the hay crop. Richmond and Dallas contacts expressed concern over the adequacy of hay stocks. San Francisco reported that potato production was down in Idaho but up strongly in Washington and Oregon. The Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts noted higher crop prices. Several districts indicated that higher grain prices would support crop receipts, but Chicago and Kansas City also noted that higher grain prices would also push up feed costs and reduce profit margins for livestock producers. Chicago and St. Louis indicated declines in livestock production.