Overview The Tenth District economy is still growing moderately. Housing activity and retail sales are both increasing and loan demand at commercial banks is generally rising. Farm income is flat, however, and activity in the energy sector is slowing. Prices for both retail goods and manufacturers' inputs are holding fairly steady. Retail Sales Most district retailers report sales are moderately higher than a year ago, as Christmas buying generally met or exceeded expectations. Merchandise categories with especially strong sales included home furnishings and appliances, apparel, and jewelry. Sales are expected to continue to rise at a moderate pace. Most retailers, satisfied with current inventory levels, expect to maintain stocks in line with sales after normal post-holiday adjustments. Retail prices remain generally flat and little change is expected in the months ahead as competition keeps prices in check. Reports on last month's automobile sales are mixed, but dealers are generally optimistic about 1994 sales. Some dealers are still expanding new car inventories, while others are satisfied with current stocks. Manufacturing Purchasing agents report a mixture of changes in input prices, with some prices rising modestly and others falling slightly. Few expect prices to rise in the near term. Most agents find materials readily available and expect few availability problems in the months ahead, although some lead times have lengthened slightly. A few firms continue to trim inventories, but most are satisfied with their inventory levels. Most respondents who sell abroad report somewhat higher export sales. Energy Activity in the district energy sector slowed recently as oil prices continued to fall, The price of West Texas intermediate crude fell in December to its lowest level in nearly five years. Overall, the average number of operating rigs in district states slipped to 292 in November from 294 in October. The rig count continued to fall in the first four weeks of December to 283, off about 14 percent from one year ago. Housing Housing starts and sales of new homes in most areas of the district remain significantly higher than a year ago. Most builders also report increases in the last month but note slower growth, which they attribute partly to increased lumber prices and a lack of skilled labor. In the period ahead they expect further increases in starts and sales of new houses along with higher prices for new homes. Inventories of unsold homes remain very low. Mortgage demand is reported to be mixed, with most respondents expecting seasonal factors to be most important in the near term. While respondents generally report modest increases in mortgage rates, there is no consensus on how rates will behave in the near future. Banking Loan demand was higher last month at almost all reporting banks. Most respondents report increased demand for consumer, residential construction, agricultural, and commercial and industrial loans, and for home mortgages. Demand was generally constant to higher for home equity and commercial real estate loans. Loan-deposit ratios increased at more than half the banks and remained unchanged at the rest. Investments were mostly unchanged from the previous month. No respondents changed their prime rate last month and none expect to do so in the near term. A few banks trimmed their consumer lending rates, but most left them unchanged. One bank eased its lending standards while the rest reported no change. Deposits increased last month at most reporting banks and were unchanged at the others. Demand deposits and NOW accounts were up at almost all banks. Money market deposit accounts and small time and savings deposits were constant to up at most banks. Large CDs were mixed, with about half of the respondents reporting increases and half reporting decreases. Agriculture District agricultural bankers view farm prospects for 1994 as mixed. Higher crop prices will bolster incomes for district crop producers. But the higher crop prices will push up feed costs and squeeze profit margins for district livestock producers. Overall, the bankers expect little change in district farm income in the year ahead. Most district farmers and ranchers enter 1994 in solid financial condition, according to district agricultural bankers. Despite large crop losses caused by last year's wet weather and flooding in the eastern part of the district, the bankers note only slight slippage in the quality of their farm loan portfolios. The bankers plan to deny credit to very few of their current farm borrowers in 1994. Despite the outlook for flat farm income, most small business owners in district rural communities are optimistic about their prospects in the coming year. Sales during the recent holiday season were generally above normal. As a result, many rural businesses enjoyed improved sales in 1993, and they expect stronger sales in 1994.