Reports from Third District business contacts in early January were generally positive. Manufacturers said demand for their products picked up in December and that both shipments and new orders were moving up at the beginning of January. Retailers indicated that Christmas sales ran a bit above their expectations, which had ranged around 5 percent in dollar terms on a year-over-year basis. The increases appeared to be broad-based among types of stores and varieties of merchandise. Bankers generally described loan demand as steady or slightly up, due in large part to seasonal factors, although they indicated that mortgage refinancing activity had eased significantly. The outlook in the Third District business community is positive although not strongly optimistic, with most of those contacted for this report forecasting continued moderate improvement in 1994. Manufacturers expect to see orders grow through the first half, and they indicate they may step up hiring as the new year progresses. Retailers expect sales to increase in line with overall economic growth. Bankers believe consumer credit is on a growth trend and some noted signs of increased interest in borrowing by businesses as well. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the Third District continued to increase at the turn of the year, according to reports from area industrial firms in late December and early January. Around one-third of those contacted said shipments and orders were moving up, while more than half said their shipments and orders were running at a steady pace. The increase in shipments was leading to a drop in inventories among regional manufacturers. However, the stepped-up demand was not affecting order backlogs, which were reported to be holding level by most manufacturers. A slight pickup in employment, on balance, at area plants may be attributable to the increased demand for their products. The outlook among Third District manufacturers is generally optimistic. Among those contacted for this report, just over half expect business to improve through the first half of the year, while around one-third anticipate steady conditions, and only a few expect business to decline. Overall, area manufacturers expect orders and shipments to grow over the next six months, and they plan to hire more workers during the period. Retail Third District retailers generally described sales for the Christmas period as somewhat above expectations. Year-over-year gains in the range of 5 to nearly 10 percent, in dollar terms, were common among all types of stores and for a broad range of merchandise. As has been the case in recent years, the bulk of the sales came in the last week before Christmas and in the week after. While markdowns were prevalent, retailers indicated price reductions were not extensive, and most expect to show good profits for the fiscal fourth quarter (November-January). Retailers said they believe consumer confidence is growing, but they do not forecast strong gains in spending. Looking ahead, merchants expect sales to be seasonally slow during the winter but to pick up about in line with overall economic growth in the spring. Finance Third District bankers contacted in early January noted the usual seasonal increase in total loan volume outstanding, mainly consumer credit and some business lending, but they said that mortgage refinancing activity had slowed considerably. While several bankers said seasonal patterns appeared to be dominating the recent pickup in lending, they expressed some optimism that a more basic positive trend might be taking hold. Most believe growing consumer confidence will lead to increased personal borrowing, and some cited increased interest in new or expanded credit facilities among potential business borrowers as a sign that commercial and industrial loan volume might turn up in the new year also.