Production, Sales, and Inventories District survey respondents, except for those in certain trades and services, indicate declines recently in retail sales, particularly automobiles. This continues a slackening trend evident in this District throughout the current year. Manufacturers also report declines in shipments, new orders, and backlogs of orders, This situation apparently pervades both durable and nondurable lines and remains typical of the District's largest industry, textiles. Inventories are reported to be substantially unchanged from the previous month in manufacturing as well as in retail trade. Manufacturers, however, report higher levels of inventories than they desire, while retailers report inventory levels to be somewhat depleted. Employment and Unemployment Employment is reported to have declined in the District during the past month, in manufacturing as well as in trade and services The decline continues a generally weakening employment situation existing since January. Hours worked per week have been reduced further, and initial claims for unemployment insurance apparently continue high. On the other hand, District businessmen indicate that good employees are still scarce in both the skilled and unskilled categories. Wages and Prices District manufacturers report increases in both wages and prices over the past month as they have consistently done for the past year. Businessmen in trade and services indicate an even more pronounced upward tendency. Scattered indications of price declines have appeared in the textile and furniture industries. Construction Residential construction activity in the District remains severely depressed. Nonresidential construction, however, is reported to have increased slightly, a reversal of previous months' reports. Loan Demand District bankers report that the demand for mortgage loans increased significantly during the past month. A number of bankers, however, indicate reluctance to accommodate this demand due to statutory rate ceilings and other factors. Business loan demand is reported to have increased somewhat over the past month as well, while consumer loan demand is apparently unchanged. Outlook Uncertainty pervades the economic outlook among District businessmen and bankers due to both economic and noneconomic factors, including domestic social unrest and recent developments in the Vietnam War. Capital Spending Survey respondents in manufacturing, particularly nondurable goods, indicate plant and equipment capacity to be in excess. Respondents in trade and services report their capacity to be inadequate. Both groups, however, apparently plan further increases. Reserve bank directors confirm this consensus and report that, even in some instances where current capacity is more than adequate, spending plans are not being curtailed and are even being increased in certain cases due to a general feeling that inflationary conditions will continue. Inventory Investment Manufacturers report current inventory levels to be excessive, but businessmen in trade and services feel they are too low, Reserve bank directors indicate a similar mixture of opinion. Adjustments are apparently still going on, and some respondents indicate that, while the largest share of inventory reduction has already passed, few significant increases are being planned. General Conditions and Consumer Spending There is a consensus among District bankers that further declines are ahead for general business activity in the District. Moreover, Reserve bank directors indicate that consumer spending plans are being adjusted downward somewhat, reflecting largely a feeling of uncertainty over the future course of the national economy.