Overview Some moderation continues to be apparent in Tenth District economic activity. While retail sales continue to improve, housing activity and mortgage demand have generally slowed. Inventories of retail goods are slightly larger than desired, while inventories of materials inputs are at satisfactory levels. Price increases have been small, and are expected to continue so. Loan demand is increasing slightly at district banks, while deposits remain unchanged. Yields of fall-harvested crops varied across the district while the newly-planted winter wheat crop is in good condition. Retail Trade Retailers report that year-to-date retail sales are up significantly over a year ago, and that sales continued to improve in the past three months. Inventories are slightly larger than desired for some retailers. However, no major trimming is intended, because most retailers are optimistic about sales through the remainder of the year. Prices remained generally flat in recent months, and no significant increases are anticipated through the remainder of the year. Automobile Sales Automobile dealers throughout the Tenth District continue to report improved sales in 1984 relative to last year. Credit market conditions are satisfactory, and financing is available both for floorplanning and car buyers. Most dealers report smaller inventories due mainly to the 1985 model introductions and partially to the GM strike. Dealers are optimistic about sales for the balance of 1984 and early 1985. Purchasing Agents Purchasing agents report input price increases of 5 to 10 percent over the last 12 months, with virtually no price increases during the last three months. Although metals prices are expected to continue to fall, prices for other inputs are generally expected to remain stable through the end of the year. No problems with availability were reported and none are expected. Most purchasing agents report inventories at satisfactory levels, and no substantial changes in inventory levels are planned. Housing Activity and Finance Residential construction activity is softening. Single-family starts are generally down, particularly since August. Starts in multi-family units range from below year-ago levels to about the same levels. Housing starts are expected to slow through yearend if interest rates remain at, or rise above, their current level. Sales of new houses are generally down from last year (except in Colorado where sales have been steady). Building materials are in good supply and are expected to remain so. Prices for materials are generally steady. Demand for mortgage funds and mortgage commitments at savings and loan associations is slowing because of slight increases in mortgage rates over the past months, and also because of seasonal declines. Most respondents expect mortgage demand to continue decreasing, although rates are expected to stabilize. Savings inflows range from much higher to much lower than last year. Increased competition was cited as a contributor to the declines at certain institutions. Respondents, however, generally anticipate only very moderate changes in savings flows for the remainder of 1984. Banking Total loan demand increased slightly last month at Tenth district banks. The gains were distributed unevenly throughout the district, however, reflecting the diversity of economic conditions. Commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans increased where strong construction activity is underway. The slight increase in consumer loans was also concentrated in the economically more active areas of the district. Residential real estate loans declined district-wide, however, as did agricultural loans. Following money center banks, Tenth District banks reduced their prime lending rates by three-quarters of a percent early in October to rates ranging from 12 3/4 to 13 3/4 percent. Most bankers expect the prime to decline slightly further, although they expect a lower prime to have little effect on consumer lending rates. Consumer lending rates were generally unchanged from last month. Total deposits remained unchanged last month at Tenth District banks, reflecting the general lack of strong loan demand and the slow pace of the district economy. A slight increase in MMDA's and IRA and Keogh accounts offset a slight decrease in demand deposits and passbook savings accounts, while other deposits remained constant. Agriculture Fall harvest is underway in district states. Corn yields in New Mexico, Oklahoma, and parts of Colorado and Nebraska are average to above average this year. Other parts of the district have not harvested corn yet due to wet conditions, and yields in Kansas and Missouri may be below average. Below average soybean yields in most district states are partly attributed to late planting in the spring and to an early frost. Reports on sorghum yields are mixed. Planting of the winter wheat crop is underway throughout the district. Though just starting in Kansas, planting is finished in Oklahoma, Colorado and parts of Nebraska, while other states report 50 to 75 percent of the crop planted. The crop is in good condition, and moisture conditions are generally favorable. Very little wheat acreage will be used as pasture this fall, but range conditions in the district are generally good. Bankers are generally pessimistic about debt repayment by farmers this year. Production loans will be repaid, but little reduction of intermediate and long-term debt is expected. Some bankers expect problems in receiving full payment of interest on outstanding loans. Reports of foreclosures and partial liquidations are mixed. With some exceptions, most bankers believe that agriculture's financial stress will worsen during the year ahead.