Summary Developments of recent weeks suggest that economic activity in the Seventh District has plateaued, but few observers are apprehensive over an imminent general recession. Total employment in the five- state area has shown very little improvement since early in the year and job seekers are abundant. However, surveys by consultants indicate increases in salaries of over 6 percent in 1985. Apparent settlement of the threatened auto strike removes a shadow over many District centers, but the terms of the agreement perpetuate the region's competitive disadvantage of high labor costs. Except for new cars, small trucks and vans, retail sales were disappointing in the third quarter. Steel output appears to have started up again, after a sharp slump, and steel executives here anticipate effective government actions to curb imports. Mechanical capital goods demand remains weak with new disappointments in farm and construction equipment, and slower sales of heavy trucks. Housing activity is slipping while most nonresidential construction has upward momentum. Delivery leadtimes on goods have shortened. Most inventories are under close control, but stocks of general merchandise are described as "high." Prices are fairly stable with competition restraining increases in most markets. Many District farmers are hard-pressed by heavy debts, unprofitable prices, and declining values of farmland and used equipment. General Outlook Despite vexing problems, quite serious in some sectors, business and consumer confidence in the Seventh District remains generally sound, but not ebullient. It is now recognized that the national expansion has been slowing since last spring, but only a few isolated voices are apprehensive that a general recession is at hand. Relatively stable prices and lack of speculative buying by consumers and businesses have been welcome surprises. Recent easing of interest rates has allayed fears voiced earlier of a new credit crunch. Apparent settlement of the auto negotiations removes a storm cloud. However, there is widespread worry over huge federal deficits, enormous foreign trade deficits, and the shaky state of some financial institutions and some foreign debtors. Serious imbalances, in short, are seen to be financial rather than physical. Employment Growth Slow Through August 1984, the rise in payroll employment since December 1982 in the five District states was only half as great as in the nation. District employment has remained well below the level of the late 1970s. Since February, a large portion of the District including the entire states of Illinois and Iowa have witnessed no growth at all in employment. Hiring survey and projections of activity by industry indicate no significant improvement in the months ahead. Job seekers are abundant, although many are said to be poorly trained and qualified. Despite slack labor markets, private surveys indicate Chicago area employers plan average increases in salaries in excess of 6 percent for 1985, slightly more than in 1984, and close to the national average. Employers are making intense efforts to curtail soaring costs of medical benefits, but have had only limited success so far. The new UAW pact retains medical benefits intact. Chicago teachers threaten a strike if their medical plan is made contributory. Strike threats loom in the trucking and airline industries where employers are trying to force substantial compensation concessions to get labor costs more in line with those of non-union competitors. Evaluating the Auto Settlement Rank-and-file approval of the three-year UAW-GM pact and the tentative Ford settlement seem to remove the threat of a major work stoppage that had been overhanging the District economy all year. Unlike earlier years of auto contract renewals, there are no near- term contract expirations of importance to be faced in the farm and construction equipment industries. Thus, the durable goods industries of the Midwest appear to be entering an extended period of labor peace. The new auto agreements, valued at roughly 25 percent over three years (depending on actual costs of COLA, medical benefits, job security provisions, retirement improvements, etc.) have been greeted by some as "modest" and noninflationary, but other observers point out that they extend and reinforce the heavy labor cost differential that has been a major factor in the competitive disadvantage of the region relative to other regions and abroad. At the end of the contract, the average annual labor cost per active production worker in the auto industry will substantially exceed $50,000. Pressures for investments in labor-saving equipment and foreign sourcing can be expected to intensify. Steel Slump Over? Raw steel production in the Chicago and Detroit districts dropped by more than a third from mid-May to late September before turning up in early October. The accompanying decline in steel shipments in the third quarter was more than seasonal, in contrast to earlier expectations. Except for the hard-hit farm sector, steel consumption has held at, or near, expected levels. Therefore, the decline is attributed to increased imports and inventory liquidation. The fourth quarter is expected to see improvement, bringing industry shipments for the year to about 75 million tons, well above 1983, but several million tons less than expected earlier in the year. Higher mill shipments in the fourth quarter will reflect greater consumption in the motor vehicle industry and nonresidential construction, stabilization of inventories, and reduced imports. Industry leaders have been assured that the Administration "means business" in restricting imports from third-world countries, up till now uninhibited by restraints. Imports are expected to return gradually to 20 percent of domestic usage, down from the 26 percent ratio for the first 8 months of 1984. Capital Goods Producers of mechanical capital goods still report general weakness. Defense orders continue to expand, but are of relatively small importance in the District. Orders for oilfield apparatus and materials handling equipment have improved, but from a very low base. Light construction equipment is improved, but heavy items, such as outdoor cranes, remain severely depressed. Farm equipment sales are running well below last year's sad level. Orders for heavy trucks dropped in the third quarter, but demand for medium trucks and truck trailers remains vigorous. Construction Homebuilding has declined from last spring, but remains near last year's level. Sales of new and used homes have held up better than expected, partly because the public has accepted the view that high rates are here to stay. Conventional mortgage interest rates quoted range from 13.5 to over 14 percent, plus 3 to 5 points, about 100 basis points below the peak of last spring. Almost 70 percent of new home mortgages are ARMs, with initial rates ranging up to 12 percent. Nonresidential construction of virtually all types, with office buildings leading, continues to increase with a steady stream of sizable new projects announced. Retail Sales Some major retailers express disappointment over volume in recent months. The two-year boom in appliances, furniture and other home furnishings appears to have peaked out. Soft goods have strengthened somewhat. General merchandise inventories are generally excessive. This has led to widespread price cutting to keep inventories from rising further. Prices Fairly Stable Competition, including a wide range of imported goods, is keeping inflation in check. A retail analyst estimates general merchandise prices average less than 1 percent above last year, the smallest rise in many years. In the wholesale markets, prices of many metals have declined in recent months. Increases in prices of paper products, gypsum board, and electronic components have been substantial, but may have leveled.