Summary Reports from this District indicate moderation of economic growth. Employment is growing slowly and pressures to avoid price increases are intense. Retail sales gains are moderating. Manufacturers report either smaller order increases or declines in orders. Inventories are near desired levels. Housing activity continues to fall, but banks report business and consumer lending remains strong. District Labor Market Conditions Labor market conditions in the District improved in September. Employment increased and unemployment declined in Ohio, reducing the unemployment rate to 9.22 (s.a.), 2.3 percentage points below its year-earlier level. Manufacturing employment continues to rise slowly. Prices Firms report substantial competitive pressure on prices. A survey of manufacturing firms in the region reveals fewer firms are raising prices and more are cutting prices than three months ago, while most are holding prices steady. Those firms also report a substantial slowing of increases in prices paid for commodities and services. Capital goods producers anticipate using productivity gains primarily to moderate increases of prices charged rather than to widen profit margins, despite their view that profit margins are very narrow for this stage of an economic expansion. Retail Sales General merchandisers in this District report double-digit sales gains from year-earlier levels for September. The increases, however, were concentrated in the first part of the month. Gains dropped back to a single-digit pace by month-end and remained there through early October. Retailers expect this more moderate pace to continue through yearend, with one analyst anticipating a 7 percent - 8 1/2 percent gain for the year as a whole. Cutbacks in orders have kept inventories at acceptable levels. Area auto dealers report an easing in early-October sales. Low inventory rather than a lack of demand continues to be cited as the major cause of slower sales. Manufacturing Firms in this District generally report new orders continue to rise but at a reduced pace, although several capital goods producers report order declines. Weakness in capital goods orders is generally attributed to inventory adjustment, growth of imports, and slowing of business fixed investment to a more normal pace for this stage of the business cycle. One capital goods producer, noting the strength of new appropriations for capital spending, expects orders to rebound soon, and capital spending to decline in late 1985 at the earliest. Firms experiencing declines in orders expect to use order backlogs to avoid reducing output, but only for a few months. A producer of truck parts notes that there was a decline in orders for large trucks in the third quarter because orders had been bunched into the first half to avoid tax increases effective July 1. He expects truck orders to rebound in the fourth quarter. Steel producers report soaring imports and customer inventory liquidation have caused a reduction of orders and production. Together with excess capacity, this weakness in demand has kept transaction prices well below published prices. A major producer estimates it will be late in the first quarter of 1985 before customer inventory targets are reached. A tire producer reports orders from original equipment manufacturers continue very strong but orders for replacement tires have softened in the last two months. Despite their having operated at capacity for any months, domestic tire producers generally plan no increases in production capacity. Inventories Inventories generally appear to be near desired levels. Most manufacturers report inventories of materials and finished goods are being kept level, while roughly equal numbers of firms report inventory increases and decreases. Excessive inventories are reported in the steel industry, especially at steel service centers, and in the farm machinery industry. Inventories of truck and automobile tires are very low for this stage of the business cycle but manufacturers, distributors, and retailers seem satisfied with current inventory levels. General merchandisers report inventory levels are satisfactory, and automobile dealers complain that inventories are too low. Housing After an unusual one-time surge in August funded by proceeds of State of Ohio mortgage revenue bonds, housing activity in September resumed its downward trend of recent months. Despite signs of further weakening during the fourth quarter, market participants are expecting better-than-normal sales and profits for this stage of an economic expansion. Nevertheless, builders and realtors are undertaking significant steps, including reducing building on speculation and lowering employment through attrition, to weather the slowdown that they forecast will continue through mid-1985. Mortgage lenders report considerably fewer applications in the third quarter than in the second, with applications in September ranging from 20 to 40 percent below expected levels. Lenders indicate that high mortgage rates have softened demand considerably, and a recent slight drop in mortgage rates had no effect on borrowing. Unlike in any other parts of the country, mortgage borrowers in this area seem to be particularly cautious about adjustable rate mortgages. Commercial Banking Loan outstandings in all major categories increased at Fourth District banks during September. Business lending increased significantly, after being relatively flat in July and August. Consumer loan demand continues to be strong although the pace of lending has tapered off somewhat. Bankers expect business and consumer loan demand to remain quite good in the next few months. Evidence suggests that district banks used borrowed funds to accommodate much of the recent loan growth. Although savings deposits increased, banks experienced a greater decline in transaction deposits.