Modest growth continues in the Ninth District. Unemployment rates and other labor market indicators seem to have improved lately. Some growth in consumer spending is reported, but not for homes. Also reported are scattered signs of commercial and industrial expansion. Indicators of recent financial activity are mixed, strong in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, but weak in the rural areas, where farmers are facing low prices. Employment The latest available data indicate that labor market conditions have strengthened a bit. Minnesota's unemployment rate fell 0.1 percent to 6.3 percent in August, reversing two months of slight increases. Also in August, employment in Minnesota reached an all-time high. Improvement was particularly notable in the Twin Cities metropolitan area, where the unemployment rate dropped to 4.5 percent in August. Indicative of continuing strong labor demand, in August the Minneapolis-St. Paul help-wanted advertising index was still about 47 percent above its level a year earlier and in September Minnesota's initial unemployment claims fell again. This Bank's directors continue to report that unemployment rates in southern Minnesota and the Dakotas are low and that rates in parts of Wisconsin and Montana have fallen somewhat. Consumer Spending With the exception of sales in agriculturally dependent cities and towns, retail sales of general merchandise appear to be following the trend of modest growth reported last month. One large retailer in the Twin Cities reports that its back-to-school promotion went well, particularly in September. Its sales figures are still running ahead of plan. It and another large retailer in the Twin Cities say that apparel sold particularly well. Bank directors from diversified cities around the district report similar findings. Large chain stores in Rochester, Minnesota, report a good September, although smaller stores weren't doing as well. Mall business was up considerably in September in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, but only modestly in Bismarck, North Dakota. Mirroring reports for the nation, motor vehicle sales in the district seem to have picked up a bit since August. In September, a domestic manufacturer was surprised to find both its car and truck sales in this region up substantially over year-earlier levels. District inventories of vehicles are still low. Some Bank directors in agriculturally dependent areas report that cars and trucks have been moving well there, too. Home purchases, while still up from levels of a year ago, appear to be falling off. Both Bank directors and district realtors indicate that housing affordability has deteriorated, with high financing costs, prices, and taxes mentioned as factors. Mortgage revenue bonds are helping to prop up sales in parts of western Wisconsin, though. Tourist spending in the district, which may have been somewhat more restrained this summer than last, picked up with the arrival of the fall color season. In the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, the season started early and is lasting longer than expected. Travel to parks in Montana and the Dakotas has been lower this year than last. While some attribute this to exchange rates inducing Canadians to stay home, in fact more Canadians appear to be crossing the border this year. Canadian tourist dollars appear to be flowing elsewhere than parks. Commerce and Industry Scattered reports have been appearing lately about commercial and industrial production and expansion in the Ninth District. Plans to build a $100 million office-hotel complex in Minneapolis have been announced. Some energy production facilities are being built in North Dakota, where petroleum-related activity is running at a record rate. However, construction permits are down in Bismarck, North Dakota. While an auto parts distribution center is being built in South Dakota, little other new expansion is reported there. Building products plants, which are benefiting from low lumber prices, are producing at high levels to meet building demand. While pulp and paper plants are still very busy, no expansion plans have been announced recently. Agriculture Most of the agricultural sector continues to be plagued by low prices, low land values, and high debt service, none of which is likely to improve soon. In Minnesota alone, the farm price index fell 3 percent between July and August. Despite Soviet purchases, generally favorable crop conditions may push production up enough to lower prices further. For example, recent estimates indicate that the nation's corn harvest will be the fourth largest on record, and both soybean and wheat production are up substantially over the drought- and PIK-reduced levels of 1983. Corroborating this, district Bank directors report favorable crop conditions in the district, except in the dry areas of the western Dakotas and northeastern Montana. They also continue to report severe farm debt- service loads. The only ag producers with some reason for optimism seem to be those selling meat animals. Lower feed prices are improving the profitability of hog and livestock operations, and cattle prices have picked up a bit recently. Finance The financial sector reflects the continuing trend of urban economic growth outstripping rural growth. Both deposits and loans at large Twin Cities banks have been growing faster than their national counterparts. From mid-August to mid-September in the Twin Cities, large bank deposits and loans grew 1.7 percent and 2.8 percent, respectively. The comparable national figures were only -0.1 percent and 1.1 percent. Consumer loan growth has been particularly strong in the Twin Cities. Financial activity in the rest of the district seem to be slower, though, according to this Bank's directors.