The Twelfth District economic expansion has cooled dramatically. In September and early October, retail sales at department stores and automobile dealerships are reported to have shown no significant improvement from August's reduced pace. Nonresidential construction activity is reaching boom proportions in key metropolitan areas. But the recent slight reduction in mortgage interest rates has been insufficient to prevent both the construction and sale of new homes from falling further. The strong U.S. dollar, and consequent increase in lower-priced foreign imports, is hurting such key Western industries as lumber and primary metals, reducing the overall growth of manufacturing employment to a crawl. Prices for important Western agricultural products continue to fall, increasing the debt position of many farmers. Business loan demand at many District banks sagged during the third quarter, and only large banks expect a pickup in coming months. Consumer Spending Retail sales results were mixed throughout the Twelfth District states in September and early October. But overall, sales at major department stores appear to have shown little or no increase from August's reduced pace. The four major department stores in Southern California described back-to-school and early fall business as "disappointing". In September, their year-to-year gain in sales narrowed to 8 percent compared with 13 percent in August and 17 percent in July. Retailers attributed this weaker performance in part to unusually warm weather which hindered sales of autumn apparel. But the fact that sales of furniture, housewares and appliances fell indicates that the housing slowdown is taking a toll on consumer purchases of durable household items. Retail sales also were disappointing in Utah and Idaho. In contrast, retailers in the Pacific Northwest apparently experienced a pickup in sales after the mid-summer slowing. Throughout the District, automobile and recreational vehicle sales were reported to have declined in September, but mainly due to supply problems. Retailers generally have lowered their expectations for Christmas business. But department stores still expect an average year-to-year sale, gain of 8-10 percent. Manufacturing and Mining The growth of manufacturing employment in most Twelfth District states has slowed dramatically recently, both because the growth of consumption of many key products manufactured in the area has slowed but also because lower-priced foreign imports are supplying on increased share of U.S. markets. The influx of imports has forced further cutbacks in employment in the metals and lumber industries and recently has begun to undermine domestic paper orders and prices as well. Moreover, the fact that inventories of such internationally-traded commodities as copper, aluminum and paper have continued to rise suggests that domestic producers may be forced to cut output further. If the Administration approves legislation recently passed by Congress, Pacific Northwest forest products firms could receive substantial relief from the burden of high-cost federal timber under contract. Still, lumber market conditions are so weak that many companies are expected to operate at a loss in 1984. Rising federal expenditures for defense and space programs and increased business investment continue to boost employment in such industries as electronic equipment, aircraft and missiles and nonelectrical machinery. But even in those industries, employment growth is slowing. Construction and Real Estate Housing starts in the West have shown further weakness recently, despite a slight reduction in mortgage interest rates. Western starts have held up somewhat better than those nationally but still are currently running about 27 percent below this year's peak reached in January. Because builders have reduced the construction of new homes about in line with the decline in sales, their inventory of unsold new homes has not risen to excessive levels. Nevertheless, builders expect Western housing starts to fall further in 1984 and 1985, even if mortgage rates remain at current levels. Falling permits reinforce the likelihood of a further slowdown in regional homebuilding. High interest rates have not impeded the virtual boom underway in nonresidential construction activity in the West. Portland is doing particularly well in attracting investment in high-technology manufacturing plants. Office vacancy rates are reaching disturbing levels in major metropolitan area, however, reducing rents below year-ago levels. Agriculture In general, the Twelfth District agricultural sector continues to be in a difficult period financially, especially those farms which are highly leveraged. The strength of the dollar is reducing exports, while putting downward pressure on prices through a large influx of imports. Summer and fall crops in the region have been especially abundant, further reducing prices. Even in California where total net farm income may be up in 1984, the return on equity generally will be unsatisfactory. In California, above-normal production this year has combined with a carryover of surplus inventory to depress prices for such commodities as grapes, nuts, and tree fruits to or below the break-even point for many growers. California's cotton crop is progressing well, but the strong U.S. dollar and prospect of record world production continue to push prices lower. The situation of rice growers is especially troublesome, since such countries as Taiwan and Thailand have stepped up their exports. In California, Utah and other Intermountain states, the livestock sector has not experienced significant year-to-year improvement in prices. Farm Land values are still falling, while highly-leveraged farmers are further increasing their debt position. In Utah, foreclosures on farm loans are reported to be rising sharply. Financial Institutions Commercial and industrial loans at many Twelfth District banks sagged during the third quarter, and bankers report mixed prospects for the coming months. At large banks, business loans (not seasonally adjusted) declined at a 3 percent annual rate over the third quarter, in contrast to increases of 7 and 23 percent respectively during the first and second quarters. Still, most of the larger banks reported continued strong demand from certain borrowers, especially high technology firms, retailers, builders, and the service industries. Moreover, these banks expect improved retail sales, strong capital spending, and a slowdown in the growth of corporate profits to boost overall business loan demand in the near future, although lover inventory financing requirements will, offset some of this expansion. Smaller banks, especially those located in regions dominated by the mining, lumber, and energy industries, also have experienced weaker demand for credit in recent months. But these banks generally do not expect business loan demand to pick up, due to the effects of continued high interest rates and import penetration in depressing their local economies. Moreover, an increasing number of firms in their market areas are trying to limit their investment to an amount that can be financed with internally generated funds.