The Southeast's economy continues to progress in spite of nagging difficulties in several areas. The strong dollar and high mortgage interest rates have retarded manufacturing employment growth and dampened somewhat the region's usually dynamic housing industry. Inadequate dealer stocks of popular automobile models and drought- reduced crop yields have countered the general expansion. On the positive side, steady consumer spending continues to be the principal impetus behind the region's growth, followed by swelling defense-related payrolls, strong commercial construction and a rebound in housing, and improving tourism. Employment and Industry In August, the District unemployment rate of 8 percent continued near the level that has prevailed since last April. Florida and Georgia posted unemployment rates slightly over 6 percent, contrasting sharply with Alabama and Mississippi at 11.2 and 11.3 percent, respectively. Weakness in some industries has been offset by strength in others. Expectations for forest products have been revised downward as a result of slackening demand for housing and Canadian competition. In spite of productivity-enhancing investments by domestic textile and apparel firms, foreign producers continue to increase market share due to the strong dollar. Chemical companies are reacting to foreign competitive pressures by reducing production costs and shunning large projects that could result in excess capacity. In contrast, defense and related industries are boosting payrolls throughout the region. Shipyards doing Navy work, high-tech electronic firms and aerospace companies are all experiencing rapid growth. Appliance producers expect their record-breaking sales to continue through year-end. Oil and gas drilling activity should remain strong in the months ahead and show signs of increasing stability. Carpet manufacturers report strong sales, especially for commercial use. Consumer Spending Retail spending through September exceeded its year-ago level by a substantial margin. Retailers in the Southeast reported varying sales gains for August, but generally robust September sales. The Atlanta, Orlando, Jacksonville, and Miami metropolitan areas continue to outpace the nation in department store sales. Clothing, electronic items, and housewares are early fall best sellers. A low inventory of popular models weakened auto sales during August and September, according to car dealers throughout the region. Although August car and truck registrations in the Southeast fell sharply from previous months, year-to-date figures were 19 percent ahead of the same period last year. A major auto producer's sale in the region and the nation advanced 10 and 18 percent, respectively, in the first nine months of 1984 compared to 1983. Construction Residential construction in the Southeast remained surprisingly buoyant through early October, particularly in central Florida and the Nashville area. However, single- and multifamily building permits are down from their year-ago levels. Builders believe that uncertainty about the overall state of the economy and the impact of government deficits, in particular, is keeping interest rates high and limiting housing activity. The downward creep in mortgage rates over the past three months has increased the popularity of fixed- rate contracts. Mississippi's housing market got an infusion of new money from the state's $175-million housing bond issue designated for below-market-rate home mortgages. Commercial construction continues to surge, with office construction leading the way. Financial Services Total loans by large commercial banks were up in September over August. Both commercial and residential real estate loans showed continued strength in August and September, while some leveling off occurred in business loans. Contacts attribute slower business lending to corporations reaching desired inventory levels and moderating economic growth. They also report that a large share of commercial real estate loans in September was for the building of office parks, strip shopping centers, and hotels. August mortgage commitments at S&Ls dropped 9 percent from July and were 11 percent below commitments for the same month last year. Tourism Early fall activity in the tourism industry exceeded its year- earlier performance. Visitor center registrations were up in every state except Tennessee. Many attractions posted double-digit increases in attendance. Boosted by strong business and improved convention travel, hotels seemed to have filled more rooms without lowering rates. Despite poor average daily attendance of 38,000 at the World's Fair, New Orleans hotels have enjoyed a 12 percent increase in occupancy and a $10 average increase in room rates. Air traffic remains strong at most District airports. Contacts cite renewed travel interest following the Olympics and ideal weather as two main factors contributing to the overall high level of tourism activity in the District. The start of the school year has not dampened travel to the extent expected. Agriculture Significant changes have occurred in the prospects for soybeans and cotton in the region over the last month. A late summer drought in Georgia has caused projected soybean production to fall by 12 million bushels for an approximately $75-million decline in revenue. On the other hand, weather has favored cotton production, causing estimated yields to approach or surpass record yields of previous years. The net effect of these changes is likely to be a modest decline in net revenue to the region's producers of major crops. The U.S. Department of Agriculture projects a larger domestic supply of orange juice this year than in the 1983-84 season. The Florida crop is expected to be about 30 percent smaller than in 1980-81, the last year without freeze damage. Citrus canker has not yet been found in bearing groves but was discovered in a seventh Florida nursery.