Overview A confluence of special factors is making it very difficult to evaluate the underlying condition of economic activity in the Fifth District. Seasonal factors, weather, labor negotiations, and especially rising imports appear to be masking more general trends. The manufacturing sector, for instance, seems to be making further headway, although losses in the apparel and textile group are continuing. The weakness earlier reported in the retail sector now appears to have been less than uniform, and the earlier momentum of retail sales has been recaptured in any event. There have clearly been production losses in several areas, notably coal, textiles, and automobile related manufacturing, as a result of labor negotiations. In the auto-related sectors, these losses should be made up rather quickly. Coal production continues very strong, with a record year virtually assured. Construction activity remains strong, but somewhat less uniform than in early summer. Loan demand is essentially stable, with consumer installment loans back on trend, and there have been modest inflows of consumer deposits into District financial institutions. Manufacturing Most evidence suggests that further gains in employment and output have occurred in District manufacturing in recent weeks. It is almost certain that the machinery and equipment and electrical equipment industries have expanded employment. Also, seasonal strength in food processing and tobacco manufacturing is boosting employment and output. On the other hand, textile, and apparel producers have not exhibited their normal seasonal strength. Most other industries have shown little change of late, and some, such as paper producers, continue to operate at extremely high levels of capacity utilization. Manufacturers' inventories have been essentially flat recently, and there appears to be only scattered concern that they might be excessive. Plant and equipment is largely in line with perceived needs, although there is decidedly less optimism among District manufacturers than in recent months. Prices at the manufacturing level are practically flat. Consumer Activity At present, consumer activity is back on the strong trend established earlier in the year, despite some isolated spots of weakness in mid-summer. Current indicators are that the earlier weakness was less widespread than earlier indicated, and was concentrated in durable goods. Some areas are now reporting a significant rebound in those goods more recently. Thus, year over year gains are once again in double digits almost across the board. As an aside, some respondents seemed surprised by the suggestion that August may have been an off month for retail sales, One other factor, however, has been unusual weather. In particular, a hurricane significantly disrupted business activity in a sizeable part of the District in the past month. Construction Commercial construction continues to lead the way for the District, especially in the metropolitan areas. The pipeline for these projects remains full, as new plans and announcements are still keeping up with completions. Housing activity is by most indications, making a comeback after a brief respite. Once again, major strength seems to be concentrated in and around the metropolitan areas, but that has been the case, more or less, throughout the recovery. All in all, housing construction and sales are at or near the levels reached earlier in the year. Agriculture Agricultural cash receipts in the Fifth District are expected to rebound sharply from the drought dominated levels of a year ago. Preliminary estimates call for District cash receipts rising 12 to 17 percent over 1983 levels. Larger crop production as well as increased livestock production have fueled the cash receipts increase, more than outweighing lower crop prices experienced this season. Production cost increases were modest in 1984, indicating that agricultural net cash receipts levels will also show improvement. The Outlook Expectations around the District are very mixed at present. Manufacturers, as noted, are considerably less optimistic than in recent months, perhaps even pessimistic. Quite a few now seem to feel that current levels of activity are unsustainable. Much of this lack of optimism is related to import competition, however. Textile and apparel producers are very concerned and 1984 imports to date could easily justify that concern. Consumers and retailers, on the other hand, are seen as confident and still holding to positive expectations, at least for the remainder of the year. Retailers are described as cautious with regard to inventories, but indications are that inventories are adequate to support continued strength in sales. Retailers are not, apparently, inclined to risk losing sales on this account. There is little sense that inflation poses any near term threat. Prices are expected to rise only very little in coming months.