Summary Seventh District economic activity gained momentum in April, after slowing in the first quarter, while reports of price increases grew increasingly frequent and widespread. Retail sales and housing activity showed signs of strengthening in March and April on a seasonally adjusted basis. Manufacturing output continued to expand at a moderate pace. District labor markets remained tight. Business loan demand remained quite strong, including financing demand for working capital, capital equipment, plant expansion, and inventories. Consumption/Housing Surveys and reports from individual firms suggest that retail sales and housing activity gained momentum in March and April in spite of lingering cold, wet weather. A survey of Michigan retailers showed increased sales growth in March, while optimism about future sales gains remained high. A survey in the Chicago area indicated that consumers' appraisals of their own financial condition improved during the first quarter and into April, after weakening in the fourth quarter of 1994 and into January. Retailers and manufacturers' associations indicated that durable goods sales growth (excluding autos) has not accelerated significantly since the fourth quarter of 1994, but sales results for April were encouraging, and gains from a year ago remained substantial. New vehicle sales remained relatively slow for the time of year, according to a survey of District auto dealers, but dealer optimism remained high. Used vehicle sales continued to strengthen, particularly for late-model cars, and dealer service revenues related to "fix-or-buy" decisions were not increasing in line with what might have been expected if the new car market were fundamentally weakening. Vehicle availability has improved, and a dealer association stated that "dealers still don't want to get caught short like they did last year." Incentives declined from the fourth quarter of 1994 to the first quarter of 1995, but area auto dealers expect higher rebates as well as increased dealer incentives in May and June. Significant redesigns for half of the top 10 selling vehicles are reportedly constraining new vehicle sales. A survey of auto dealers indicated that interest rates on new car loans continued to increase in recent months. Reports from District realtors suggest that existing home sales improved in March and April on a seasonally adjusted basis, with declining interest rates on mortgage loans playing an important role. Expectations for future sales have risen in recent months. An association of home builders stated that new home sales are still anticipated to decline slightly in 1995, after a very good year in 1994. "Builders are prepared for some slowing, however, and inventories are not especially high." Traffic quality (buyer interest, credit-worthiness) remains strong. Cement producers also expected somewhat slower growth in shipments volume, partly because of weaker-than-expected public infrastructure spending. Shipments for cement used in residential construction gained renewed momentum in the region in recent months, however, and overall shipments volume is still expected to post a new record in 1995. Manufacturing Purchasing managers' surveys pointed to continued but somewhat slower growth in District industrial output in the first quarter of 1995. The Chicago survey posted a small increase in April, however, and first quarter earnings reports for large District industrial firms were generally stronger than many analysts expected. Industrial power sales in the Detroit area posted a significant increase in the first quarter (over a strong year-earlier period), according to an electric utility, and power sales strengthened further in April. District steel production fell back somewhat during April after a robust first quarter, but an industry analyst noted that an explosion and subsequent cutback at a large furnace accounted for most of the decline. Heavy-duty truck orders climbed to a record during March, and an industry analyst stated that order backlog quality remains high. Unit sales of construction machinery rose nearly 20 percent in early 1995 over a particularly strong early-1994 period, but unit sales gains are expected to moderate as 1995 progresses. An association of appliance manufacturers noted some slowing in shipments growth in recent months, but still expected shipments this year to slightly exceed their record level in 1994, as increased export shipments offset a small decline domestically. Labor Markets District labor markets remained tight. A recently released survey of job openings in the Milwaukee metropolitan area showed a sharp increase in the share of employers characterizing job openings as "hard to fill" in late 1994, with wage increases most clearly evident in the lowest paying occupations. One of the survey's organizers stated that the market continued to tighten in early 1995. A regional business analyst stated that many firms in Western Michigan face serious labor shortages, particularly for "qualified" workers. These shortages have curtailed expansion plans, added to recruitment and training costs, and combined with other factors to prompt some price increases in some industries. A staffing services firm specializing in manufacturing occupations stated that producers are paying higher salaries for executive positions, and manufacturers in the Midwest are incurring higher relocation costs with an increasing share of new workers recruited from other areas. The distribution division of a large overseas-based manufacturer of heavy equipment stated that the firm was not keeping up with market- driven salary increases for field service engineers, citing margin pressure from exchange rate changes. An industry analyst believed that labor shortages have not yet resulted in significant wage increases among production workers in the fragmented plastics industry, but stated "we may be at the crux of this problem right now." Prices Purchasing managers' surveys suggested that purchased material price increases moderated in the region during early 1995. However, reports from individual firms and manufacturers' associations included increasingly frequent reports of price increases being passed through into final goods prices. Price increases accounted for a greater share of expected revenue growth in several industries anticipating slower growth in sales volume. A construction machinery industry analyst expressed some surprise with the number and size of price increases in this industry in early 1995. Prices paid by machinery dealers to manufacturers have been rising at a faster pace than list prices, while sales terms and conditions have tightened as well. Cement producers are running at "extremely high levels," according to an industry analyst, and shortages are most severe in the Midwest. Customer dissatisfaction with shortages is high - not because price increases cannot be passed through, but because supply is still short and delayed, even at the higher price. Construction contractors have been reporting raw material price increases of about 30 percent in early 1995. An association of home builders expressed some concern about appreciation in land prices, and expected them to combine with labor and material cost increases to prompt greater increases in new home price increases in the latter half of 1995. A wide variety of paper buyers reported continuing price increases, with one large company stating that the increases "aren't stopping like we thought they would." Four times as many respondents to a survey of retailers in Michigan reported higher consumer prices in recent months as those reporting declining prices, while virtually all surveyed stores expected prices to increase in coming months.