Overview According to most contacts in the District, the deceleration in the pace of growth in the region was becoming more evident. Retailers generally said sales were flat during March, but that they picked up in April. Comments from manufacturers were mixed, with some increase from earlier in the year in the number of those indicating a deceleration. Business travel is said to be up on a year-over-year basis, offsetting some weakness in tourism. Real estate contacts report that single-family home sales and construction continue to cool throughout the region, while activity in commercial and multifamily markets is still rising. Reports on prices and wages suggest that pressures remain moderate. Consumer Spending Retailers reported that sales during March were restrained by a late Easter season but improved during April. Inventory levels are generally deemed in good shape, although a few contacts note that they have begun to rise by more than they would like. Most retailers anticipate a good, but slowing, second quarter as compared to the first quarter. Manufacturing Reports from manufacturers suggest, on balance, a deceleration in growth that is becoming more generalized. Some firms linked to residential construction note slowing production and sales. Carpet production is down from a year ago at some regional plants and slack demand has forced layoffs. Producers of roofing products and concrete blocks point to slowing orders, while shipments have declined for cabinet manufacturers. A large producer of industrial equipment and machinery reports declines in both shipments and in the workweek, although new orders for export have recently picked up. Layoffs by military contractors continue to adversely affect the region, especially in Florida. Other industrial respondents, however, report ongoing or new strength. Apparel contacts indicate that the two-year decline in employment at District plants has slowed. Denim production continues to increase, with a jeans manufacturer saying they are booked up through the end of the year. There are scattered reports of apparel producers adding to capacity. The weakness of the dollar is said to be generating significant increases in exports for Louisiana's chemical industry. Contacts report that the region's paper industry continues to do well. Tire producers say they are running at capacity and have shortages of some key materials such as carbon black. Steel plants in Alabama are said to be aggressively adding to capacity in response to strong demand. Tourism and Business Travel Although international travel is down for key parts of Florida and the baseball strike hurt March hotel business, domestic business travel is currently boosting occupancy at Florida hotels and in the rest of the region. Travel officials note a serious decline in south Florida tourism, which they attribute to the decline in the Mexican peso. Cruise companies out of Miami report a huge drop-off of bookings. In the wake of the dollar's decline, the number of international tourists visiting New Orleans has increased dramatically and local tour companies are reporting revenue gains. Construction According to real estate contacts, single-family home sales and building continued to slow within the District during March and early April. Realtors continue to attribute the slowdown to uncertainty on the part of buyers despite a recent decline in mortgage rates. Several builders reported that new home inventories have begun to increase, and some added that inventories are uncomfortably high. However, most contacts remain optimistic that sales will pick up during the next couple of months. Commercial and multifamily real estate contacts continue to report improving markets throughout the District. Several developers indicate that strong demand is driving multifamily construction; however, some are concerned that the pace of development within their market will lead to oversupply. Most contacts are optimistic and anticipate that both commercial and multifamily markets will continue to strengthen during 1995. Financial Services Bankers report that overall loan demand is moderate. Commercial demand is growing, and was generally reported to be stronger than consumer loan demand. Many contacts said there was strong competition on the commercial side, as institutions compete to give borrowers the best deals. Home mortgage lending continues below last year's levels, but some lenders noted increased activity in recent weeks. Auto finance is reported to be holding steady at levels lower than a year ago. Wages and Prices Contacts indicate that wage and price pressures around the District are generally moderate. Compared to the last Beigebook, fewer manufacturers report receiving higher prices for their own finished products, and fewer expect to receive higher output prices in the near future; however, they continue to say they are facing price pressures for materials. Building material contacts note that prices are falling and inventories are up in some locations because of a housing slowdown. However, producers of transportation equipment, rubber, plastic, paper, and textile goods report rising prices of raw materials. Wage increases were said to be stable in most of the District, and reports of labor shortages continue to be confined mainly to parts of Tennessee.