Overview The Tenth District economy grew at a strong pace over the past month. Manufacturers continued to operate at high levels of capacity, homebuilding activity picked up slightly, and the district's winter wheat crop was in good condition. Amid ongoing strength in most sectors of the district economy, however, retail activity appears to have slowed from its brisk pace earlier in the year. Across the district, manufacturers continue to report increased materials prices, although few report upward pressure on wages. Prices at the retail level remained steady. Retail Sales Retailers report sluggish growth in sales over the past month and only slight improvement over year-ago sales. While apparel sales increased slightly, home furnishing sales were weak. Information about the economic impacts of the Oklahoma City bombing is still sketchy, but the disaster appears to have temporarily depressed local retail sales. Although most retailers across the district report expanding inventories compared with last month, current inventory levels are generally satisfactory. Auto dealers report flat or slightly declining sales, due primarily to higher financing costs for consumers. Nevertheless, most dealers expect increasing sales over the next few months. Manufacturing Most firms continued to operate at high levels of capacity last month. While difficulties in obtaining materials have been rare, some firms report longer lead times. Respondents generally regard inventories as too high and plan to reduce stocks during the coming months. Some firms report a sharp decline in exports to Mexico, while others report a boost in exports to Europe. Energy A surge in crude oil prices in April helped boost district drilling activity. The average number of drilling rigs operating in the district picked up somewhat during the month, ending a three-month decline. Natural gas prices, however, sank to their lowest levels in three years and continued to curb overall activity in the district's energy industry. Housing Builders report housing starts were up slightly last month due to a pickup in single-family and multi-family construction. Housing starts remain below their year-ago level, though, and most respondents expect building activity to remain sluggish during the coming months. Some builders report sales of new homes remained stable over the past month but were ahead of their year-ago pace. Building materials were generally available with few delays. While mortgage demand continued to decline, lenders expect demand to level off or improve slightly in the near term. Banking Loans at reporting banks increased last month. Almost all banks saw gains in commercial and industrial loans. Demand was up slightly for consumer loans and commercial real estate loans, flat for home equity loans and agricultural loans, and down slightly for residential construction loans. Loan-deposit ratios were generally up from the previous month, while security investments were down slightly. No respondents changed their prime rate last month and none expect to do so in the near term. Few banks altered their consumer lending rates last month, and none anticipate changes in the near future. Lending standards also were unchanged. Deposits were up slightly last month. Demand deposits, money market deposit accounts, large CDs, and small time and savings deposits rose slightly, while changes in NOW accounts were mixed. Agriculture District agricultural bankers report the winter wheat crop was in good condition last month, with recent rains brightening yield prospects. While crops in some parts of the district were damaged by an early-April frost, the damage was localized. Spring planting has generally progressed on schedule. Most farmers have completed fieldwork, although wet weather has hindered planting in some areas. Cash rents on district cropland are unchanged from 1994, indicating expectations for flat farm income in 1995. Cattle feedlots in the district were relatively full last month but held fewer cattle than a year ago. Bankers remain cautious about lending to cattle feeders, as many fear a possible drop in cattle prices this fall. Despite record supplies of beef and low cattle prices during the past year, few district cattle producers are reducing their cow numbers. Prices and wages Retailers report stable prices due to sluggish sales, subdued wage pressures, and increased competition. Most retailers expect sales to pick up over the next three months, but expect prices to remain steady. While manufacturers report some shortages of skilled labor, few report significant wage increases. Prices of industrial materials, on the other hand, have increased from last month and last year.