Most Federal Reserve District Banks reported continuing gains in economic activity from March through April, but at a somewhat slower pace. Overall business conditions were described as improving solidly in the Cleveland, Chicago, Kansas City, and Minneapolis Districts. Growth was reported to be continuing at a somewhat slower pace by Boston, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco. Business activity was described as mixed in New York and less strong in Philadelphia. Most Districts reported sluggish growth in retail sales and declines in automobile sales, while manufacturing was up by varying degrees in most Districts. Although reports of rising commodity and industrial prices remain widespread, except for construction materials, reports from many Districts described these increases as moderate or not accelerating or indicated that they were not being passed through to finished goods prices. In addition, despite tight labor markets in some sectors or regions, wage pressures were described as moderate in most areas. Retail Most Districts reported sluggish growth in general merchandise sales, although Chicago and Minneapolis reported improved sales and a few Districts (New York, Cleveland, and Atlanta) noted some improvement in April compared to March. Richmond indicated that sales growth was slowing. In the Boston and Philadelphia Districts sales were mixed and generally below expectations. Store inventories were on the rise, according to Philadelphia, Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco. Auto sales softened in all Districts except Dallas. Some weakening in sales of home furnishings and consumer durables was also reported. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity remained strong in Cleveland, Kansas City, Minneapolis, and Dallas. Continuing, but smaller, gains were reported by Boston, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis. Demand was strong for capital goods, electronics, and petrochemicals. However, even in Districts with increases in overall manufacturing, demand for construction materials was easing. San Francisco District manufacturers reported mixed results. Aerospace and lumber companies experienced declining demand, while producers of electronic goods, machinery, and aluminum increased output. Overall manufacturing activity declined in the Philadelphia District. Real Estate and Construction Commercial real estate activity was improving in most Districts. Office leasing and construction were reported on the rise by Richmond, St. Louis, and Minneapolis. Dallas and Minneapolis noted increased construction of warehouses. Nonresidential construction was mixed in the San Francisco District, moving up outside of California, particularly in Nevada and Alaska, but easing in the Los Angeles area. Boston and New York gave mixed reports; gains in some parts of those Districts were offset by declines in others. Residential construction or sales were up somewhat in the Chicago and Kansas City Districts, but were slipping in the Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts. San Francisco reported slower growth in residential construction. Multifamily construction was increasing, according to Atlanta and Dallas, but real estate contacts in those Districts expressed concern that apartments were approaching an overbuilt situation. Banking Overall bank lending was increasing moderately in most Districts, with gains most often noted in commercial and industrial lending. All five District Banks that reported on consumer lending (Philadelphia, Richmond, Cleveland, St. Louis, and San Francisco) noted drops in the demand for consumer loans. New York, Richmond, and St. Louis reported increased real estate lending. Lending terms in April were reported to be substantially the same as earlier in the year, but competition for business loans remains strong. Agriculture Several Districts noted some concern in agricultural areas about the outlook for summer crops because planting has been delayed. Cold and wet weather has caused postponements in planting in the Cleveland, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts, while dry weather has affected parts of the Richmond and Dallas Districts. According to agricultural contacts in Minneapolis, the delay could curtail crop yields later this year regardless of weather conditions during the summer. But the winter wheat crop is in good condition, according to reports received by St. Louis and Kansas City. Floods in California have damaged vegetable, fruit, and nut crops, according to information obtained by San Francisco, and some crop prices are expected to remain high through mid-summer. Both Kansas City and Dallas report falling livestock prices. Tourism Spring tourism business has picked up in the Boston, Richmond, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts, and part of the Atlanta District. Tour agencies and hoteliers in these regions expect a good summer. Boston and Atlanta both noted an increase in international visitors to some tourist regions. Atlanta also noted, however, that a weakening of tourism in southern Florida has been attributed to the drop in the value of the peso. Boston also was told that spending by domestic tourists appears to be off from prior years. Energy and Mining Recent increases in oil prices have boosted drilling activity a bit, according to the Kansas City, Dallas, and Minneapolis Districts. But a relatively mild winter depressed demand for natural gas, and natural gas prices and production remain weak. Minneapolis reported that rising demand for gold and copper was prompting output and employment increases in the District. San Francisco also reported increased production from gold and silver mines. Prices Except for prices of materials used in residential construction, reports of rising commodity and industrial prices remain widespread, although many Districts described these increases as moderate or not accelerating (including Philadelphia, Chicago, Atlanta, and Richmond) or indicated that they were not being passed through to finished goods prices (including Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Dallas). Chicago was the only District that reported that input price increases were more frequently being passed through to final goods prices. While some business contacts told District Banks that the rise in commodity prices appeared to be slowing, Boston, Chicago, and Cleveland reported the range of commodities affected by the increases was expanding. Cleveland and Kansas City contacts said retail prices were steady, while Richmond contacts reported higher retail prices. Wages Tight labor markets in some sectors or regions were reported by Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Richmond, Minneapolis, and Dallas, but wage increases were described as moderate in most of these areas, and Kansas City noted few reports of wage increases. Demand in some Districts for both skilled and semi-skilled workers, as well as technical and managerial workers, was strong. Labor markets appeared to be less tight in the Philadelphia District, where manufacturers reduced work forces in April, and in the Boston District, where business contacts gave no reports of labor shortages or growing wage pressures.