Overview Economic activity in the Fifth District increased slightly in March and April. Areas reporting growth included tourism, ports, temporary employment agencies, commercial real estate, and state revenues. Areas exhibiting little or no growth included services, finance, and residential real estate. Growth in consumer spending and manufacturing activity was down, and conditions in agriculture were somewhat worse than a year ago. Consumer Spending Indicators of retail activity growth generally decreased in April from their March levels, according to preliminary results from a mail survey of District retailers. Sales, wages, and inventories decreased. Employment and big-ticket sales increased, however, and shopper traffic was unchanged. Survey respondents indicated that retail prices rose 1.1 percent in April. They foresaw decreased demand for their products and an increase of 2.0 percent in their prices during the next six months. Service-Producing Firms Indicators of service-sector activity growth changed little in April from their March levels, according to preliminary results from a District mail survey. Respondents indicated, however, that employment was lower. Service producers reported that prices rose 0.6 percent in April. They expected a slight decrease in demand for their services and an increase of 1.0 percent in their prices during the next six months. Manufacturing Most indicators of factory activity growth declined in April from their March levels, according to preliminary results of a mail survey of District manufacturers. The shipments, new orders, and employment indexes declined, and the backlog and workweek indexes changed little. Manufacturers expected shipments, the workweek, and capital expenditures to increase during the next six months. Finished goods prices rose at the same rate in April as in March, and at a rate slightly below the general inflation rate. Raw materials prices rose less in April than in March, and at a rate higher than the general inflation rate. Respondents expected prices to rise slightly faster during the next six months than they had expected in January. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity in April was above that of March and a year ago. Spring bookings at District hotels and motels were up compared to a year ago. Contacts expected better-than-normal business this summer; one predicted "our biggest summer ever." Ports Representatives at District ports indicated that export and import levels in March were higher than those in February and a year ago. They expected that, over the next six months, exports would increase and imports would change little. One contact attributed this outlook to the weak U.S. dollar. Temporary Employment Agencies A telephone survey of temporary employment agencies indicated that labor markets were tight throughout the District. Demand for temporary workers strengthened and wages rose somewhat in April compared to March and a year ago. One contact suggested that there were "more jobs than people right now," and another described "a bidding war" for workers. Demand was particularly strong from manufacturers, warehousers, and distributors, and companies were seeking "anyone with computer skills." Finance District financial institutions reported that credit conditions were mixed during the past seven weeks. Interest rates rose moderately for consumer loans, fell for mortgage loans, and were flat for commercial loans. Demand for mortgage loans increased sharply; demand for commercial loans rose slightly; and demand for consumer loans declined. Residential Real Estate According to a telephone survey of District realtors and builders, residential real estate activity was unchanged in March and April. Building permits, home sales, and buyer traffic were stable over the period. Housing starts were also stable, except in West Virginia, where they decreased. Contacts reported that lower- to middle-priced homes were selling better than expensive homes. Home prices were steady, although building materials prices rose. Commercial Real Estate District contacts reported that commercial real estate activity increased slightly in late March and April. Leasing activity increased somewhat, but contacts reported little new construction. Vacancy rates inched downward, except in Maryland and the District of Columbia, where they were stable. Commercial rents changed little, except in North Carolina and the District of Columbia suburbs, where they increased. The availability of prime office space tightened in most District cities, and contacts reported shortages of such space in Raleigh, N.C., and the District of Columbia. State Revenues State government forecasters said that tax collections grew in March. Real revenue growth was strong in Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia; somewhat slower in West Virginia; and flat in the District of Columbia. Agriculture Agricultural conditions in April were somewhat worse than a year ago, according to farm analysts. Despite some recent rainfall, soil moisture levels in most District states were well below normal. Winter small-grain crops remained in generally good condition, but damage from dry weather was apparent in some areas of the District. Spring planting activity generally progressed at a normal pace, although in some areas of Virginia, farmers were waiting for rain before resuming planting. Dry conditions contributed to forest fires in Virginia and West Virginia.