Summary Economic activity in the Twelfth District grew at a slower pace in the first quarter. Weather disruptions caused some slowing in California's moderate recovery, and growth continued to decelerate from high levels in the intermountain states. Retail sales growth slowed further in March, especially for durable goods, and inventories were reported building for some businesses. Heavy rains during March were blamed for some of the weakness in California retail sales and caused substantial damage to several fruit and vegetable crops. District service sector firms reported continued strong demand. Among manufacturers, electronics, aluminum, and machinery producers report strong demand and tight capacity, while orders and employment remain weak at aerospace and lumber firms. Residential construction activity continued to slow in most parts of the District, but commercial activity was strong outside of California. District banks reported strong loan demand but slowing deposit growth. Business Sentiment Twelfth District business leaders continue to expect national economic growth to moderate over the next year. About three-fifths of survey respondents project national output to grow at its long- run historical average rate during the next four quarters following above-trend growth in 1994. About half of the business leaders surveyed expect an increase in the unemployment rate during the next year. However, respondents from California expect a strengthening in employment growth for the state. In Southern California, two to three times more firms plan to add workers than to cut jobs this year. While further layoffs related to restructuring are anticipated, they are expected to be on a smaller scale and less widespread than in the past several years. Retail Trade and Services District retailers report continued sluggish growth in sales, particularly in first quarter sales of durable goods. Auto sales are reported down in Idaho, Oregon, Utah, and Washington, and motor vehicle dealers in Idaho have cut their orders to manufacturers substantially to stem the rise in inventories. Furniture sales for the first quarter fell below year-earlier levels in parts of Oregon and Washington. Sales growth of nondurable goods is reported flat or slowing by many retailers. Department store sales are reported flat compared with the end of 1994, with inventories reported rising at general merchandise stores in California. Reports attribute some of the slowing in California retail sales to heavy rains during the first quarter. The District's service sector shows continued strong demand. The tourism industry in Southern California continues to strengthen. In San Diego, the America's Cup is reported to have provided a boost to the growth of visitor spending. Growth in employment in the casino and resort sector in Las Vegas has moderated from the rapid pace of the last several years. Computer service firms in Oregon report rising revenues. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity remains mixed, as further weakness in the aerospace sector in California and Washington is offset by strength elsewhere. In Oregon, several electronics manufacturing firms are adding to capacity. In Utah, a major electronic-components manufacturer announced plans to build a memory chip plant that will cost $1.3 billion and eventually employ 3,500 workers. Aluminum and machinery producers report high capacity utilization and lengthening delivery lead times. Lumber companies report shrinking product orders and rising inventories. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries District agricultural conditions are dominated by the effects of the March flooding in California. Flooding caused damage to many tree crops as well as several winter vegetable crops. Production of some fruits and nuts will be substantially lower this year. Prices for some vegetables, especially lettuce, broccoli, and cauliflower, are expected to remain high through mid-summer. On a more positive note, the heavy rains filled California's reservoirs, allowing farmers to receive full irrigation allotments for the first time in several years. Natural gas prices are reported well below year-earlier levels as a result of the mild winter. Rising gold and silver prices are reported to be giving a boost to mining employment in Nevada. Real Estate and Construction The growth in residential building continues to slow in most areas, while home sales and prices are reported mixed. In Arizona, Nevada, and Utah, new home construction generally is reported to be easing from last year's fast pace, although multi-family construction remains strong in Las Vegas. In Oregon, housing starts are reported down slightly from a year earlier. Home sales still are reported strong in Oregon, but in Idaho home sales are slowing at the higher- priced end of the market. District home prices are reported mixed, with prices up slightly in Los Angeles, flat in Seattle, and continuing to rise in Phoenix and Tucson. Commercial construction activity remains weak in Los Angeles, but is strengthening in other parts of the District. In Las Vegas, commercial vacancy rates are low and rents are reported rising. Alaska commercial construction activity is being fueled by several public works projects. Financial Institutions District banks report generally strong loan demand but slowing deposit growth. In California, commercial and real estate lending is reported strengthening, while the level of consumer installment debt outstanding continues to decline. Commercial loan demand has increased sharply in Arizona, but mortgage applications and deposit growth are weak. Banks throughout the District report continued efforts to reduce employment and overall costs.