Evidence of recovery has become more widespread and consistent since January, and respondents expect this trend to accelerate in most sectors. Previously reported improvements in construction and auto sales are triggering inventory and employment expansion in related industries. Mortgage rates have resumed a downward trend after rising earlier this year. Retail sales growth has tapered somewhat, but many merchants are expanding inventories in anticipation of a resurgence in consumer spending. Savings deposits at banks and thrifts continue to expand although less rapidly, and consumer lending has picked up slightly for the first time in months. The upturn in tourism is extending to more areas and markets. Farm lenders are less pessimistic than when previously polled, even though delinquencies and foreclosures are still mounting. Employment and Industry More signs of recovery are appearing in manufacturing. Local orders for auto parts are rising substantially in response to increasing auto sales. The upturn in construction is stimulating lumber yards to rebuild inventories and building materials manufacturers to recall workers. Even heavy industries are beginning to report increases in orders and expansion plans. A sharp drop in Florida's February unemployment rate to the single-digit level strongly signals the end of recession since Florida's cycle lags that of other states. Oil, petrochemicals, shipping, and aluminum remain depressed, however. A survey of Louisiana petrochemical plants reveals no significant change in production levels or capacity utilization, but hope remains that lower costs for petroleum-based raw materials will boost the industry. Reduced oil prices should also aid Louisiana's Offshore Oil Port, which is now handling one-third of break-even volume, but they would adversely affect regional synfuel projects, such as coal gasification. Consumer Spending Retailers report that the upward trend in consumer spending is continuing but at a slower rate than in January. They cite atypically mild weather as the reason that the Southeast fared better than the nation in February. A poll of regional department store officials indicates that most are building "heavier-than-usual" stocks of apparel and appliances, which are moving well. Ordering for most other merchandise, however, remains cautious. Car dealerships report increased floor traffic this month and reviving demand, although sales at Ford's regional dealerships fell almost 5 percent last month from year-ago levels. Because of customers' recent responses to lower interest rates and falling gasoline prices, dealers are expanding inventories, particularly of large models carrying high profit margins. Construction A poll of realtors reveals high optimism. March sales are running even with or above February levels. Most respondents expect the progressive improvements of the past months to continue. A survey of building permit departments indicates that applications appear to be coming in at a faster rate than last month. Even more depressed cities, such as Birmingham and Chattanooga, are beginning to report a quickened pace. Conventional mortgage rates continue to ease after edging back up in January and early February. By mid- March the rate structure in Atlanta drifted down from early February's range of 12 to 13 5/8 percent, with most lenders at 13 1/4, to a range of 12 to 13 percent, with most lenders at 12 3/4 percent. Discount points on FHA and VA loans firmed slightly the second week of March. As many as 6 3/4 points are being charged on some mortgages. Finance Total deposits at large commercial banks fell slightly last month relative to the previous month for the first time since last August. However, buoyed by money market deposit accounts (MMDAs), savings deposits at banks and thrifts continued to grow, albeit more slowly than the 26-36 percent rates prevalent at year-end. Commercial banks report continued uncertainty about the maturity of assets against which to match this new instrument. Investments, particularly treasuries, are currently favored. Construction and commercial loans should receive a large portion of these funds once their stability is determined. Growth in corporate and real estate loans moderated last month after jumping sharply in January. Consumer loans grew slowly for the second successive month after a quarter of decline. District banks are pioneering innovation in financial services. Next month a bankers' bank, offering correspondent services to 50 independent banks, will begin business in Florida. Two southeastern banks have entered a joint venture with two other financial firms and a major publisher to offer national financial services, including home banking and cash management, through a videotex system. A Georgia bank will offer banking, insurance, and travel agency services in three Atlanta supermarkets by May. Tourism Although improvements in travel and tourism remain concentrated geographically, reports of nascent recovery come from a widening arc. For the first time in months, business travel has begun to pick up, according to industry representatives polled. EPCOT is filling central Florida hotels to capacity, and bookings are "solid" through Easter. Even south Florida's hotels are experiencing rising occupancies relative to last year, but international tourism remains off. A strike by Eastern Airlines, Miami's largest private employer, would exacerbate the area's woes. It might also temporarily reverse the growth in passenger traffic at Atlanta's Hartsfield Airport, which has finally reported the first monthly increase from year-ago levels since September 1981. Only in Tennessee and Louisiana have respondents yet to perceive harbingers of an upturn. Certain markets, such as family tourism and conventions, also remain soft. Agriculture A survey of farm lenders reveals a continuing climb in liquidations and bankruptcies relative to a survey taken last fall and to historical norms. Nonetheless, only a minor portion of the District's farmers face severe insolvency. Lenders believe less than 10 percent of farmers are undergoing partial liquidation and less than 3 percent, complete liquidation. Only one-fifth of farm lenders surveyed anticipate worsening farm financial conditions in the coming two quarters, whereas last autumn a clear majority expected deteriorating conditions. Produce prices are rising. Excess rains have caused a temporary shortfall in shipments of vegetables, and two years of freezes have reduced yields and raised costs for citrus growers. However, new duties should prevent foreign producers from making serious inroads into Florida's orange juice market. Panel of Economists Most of the bank, business, and academic economists polled believe the FOMC's monetary policy is consistent with the goals of recovery and nonaccelerating inflation, but business economists regard money supply growth as too rapid for the continued restraint of inflation. No consensus exists regarding the optimal monetary aggregate on which to focus attention. The majority of economists are more optimistic about the strength of national recovery than they were in January, and state forecasters have made upward revisions in their predictions of state recovery. However, most bank economists hold the same views about local recovery as in January. New signs of regional improvement noticed since our last survey are in the areas of disinflation, business services, consumer spending, and housing- and auto-related industry and some light manufacturing. In addition, more respondents see amelioration in construction and auto sales. Economists expect consumer durables, basic manufacturing, and migration to begin reviving in the next phase of recovery. Most panelists see no signs of rekindling inflation, but a few discern such a trend in housing and building supplies.