Summary The economic atmosphere in the Seventh District has improved substantially since the turn of the year. This is the first time such a statement could be made unequivocally since the region's deep problems became manifest in the spring of 1979. Virtually all sectors have seen improvement or at least an end to the declines of the past year and a half. Orders have increased for building materials, steel, nonferrous metals, appliances, paper, paperboard, and various components. Retail sales of general merchandise have improved moderately and airline traffic is booming in response to bargain fares. Order leadtimes have lengthened and wholesale prices have increased for a broad range of hard and soft goods. However, demand for capital equipment remains very slow. Employment, overall, appears to have stabilized, but there is little hope for a significant near-term increase. Caution Remains Signs of better times should be kept in perspective. Improved sentiment largely reflects a feeling of relief that the long decline has halted, and perhaps reversed, without the wholesale bankruptcies that some had feared. The entire region remains very depressed. The view is spreading that the problems of the Midwest are chronic, not just the result of another "cycle." Moreover, aside from residential construction and defense (a minor factor here), much of the improvement since December is associated with the aftermath of the rapid inventory liquidation of 1982, especially the fourth quarter. No general resurgence in final demand is anticipated in the near future. Business Confidence Various surveys of business sentiment indicate improvement, but this may reflect more a feeling of relief that "we made it" through the crises than renewed confidence. Strength in the stock and bond markets has permitted many companies to greatly improve their balance sheets, and ruthless cost cutting has lowered breakeven points. But debt burdens remain high and most executives are very hesitant in making commitments. An "aversion to risk taking" is evident, to a degree unknown since World War II. Purchasing Managers' Reports Favorable In their February reports, purchasing managers associations in Chicago and Milwaukee showed gains in orders and output for the first time since the spring of 1981. Also, voluntary inventory liquidation appeared to have ended. However, reports of declining employment continued to outnumber reports of increases. Perhaps the most striking development was a sudden surge in prices paid. Since early 1982 these reports had shown prices declining on balance, an unprecedented development since World War II. Wholesale Prices Increases in prices are reported for steel, steel scrap, aluminum, copper, brass, nickel, silver, gypsum board, cement, lumber, building hardware, paper, and paperboard. Only oil products and petrochemicals have continued to decline. In many cases, earlier declines in prices and recent increases were effected by adjustments of discounts from list that will not be recognized fully in official indexes. Fierce price competition and very short leadtimes have reflected excess capacity and very low order books. Inventory policies, geared to immediate availability of goods and soft prices, are being modified as these conditions are reversed. Consumer Purchases A very large general merchandise chain reports a modest improvement in demand. Inventories are somewhat slim. Retail prices average only 2.5 percent above the year-earlier level, but may be firming. Airline travel in February and early March was at least 10 percent above the year-earlier level, and at a new seasonally-adjusted high. The surge in air travel was encouraged by bargain fares, 12 percent below last year in February. Employment In January, payroll employment in the district was 9 percent below January 1979. Nationally, employment was about the same as four years earlier. In the same comparison, manufacturing employment was down 27 percent in the district, about twice the deficit nationally. It is unlikely that job markets will improve significantly in the months ahead. Help-wanted ad volume in Chicago in February and early March was 25 percent below the year-earlier level, and 60 percent below the 1960 base. Conditions in other large district centers are similar. Many employers will attempt to handle any improvement in business without new hirings. Severance of newly hired workers can be costly, especially if government regulators or private litigation become involved. Capital Goods The outlook for capital equipment produced in the district remains bleak. A slight rise in sales of small backhoes used in homebuilding is the only improvement in the construction equipment sector. Logging equipment is also up modestly. If the Caterpillar strike (now almost six months old) is settled, output of earthmoving equipment and related components will rise. Large inventories on hand when the strike began have been depleted. Hopes for a revival in farm equipment have been dashed by the government's acreage reduction programs. Rail equipment demand has dropped to the levels of the 1930s. Some orders for trucks and trailers were placed to beat the April 1 tax hike. Machine tool order backlogs have virtually evaporated. This industry, described by its leaders as "severely crippled", is seeking protection from imports. Contracts for factories, warehouses, and commercial structures indicate a further decline in nonresidential construction. Autos Sales of autos this year have not been strong enough to justify planned production schedules, which may have to be cut back. However, some analysts point out that a growing share of auto output is for individual orders. Orders are not counted in reported sales data until deliveries are made to customers. Steel Orders for steel have risen sharply since year-end, but only for lighter products required for autos, appliances, and housing. Heavy structurals and plates remain very weak. Order leadtimes on sheet steel, near zero in January, are now out three months, a situation that may cause some users to order still further ahead. Housing The housing upswing has considerable momentum. Large district realtors report that transactions for existing homes in January and February set all-time highs for those months. Contracts for new residential construction in January in the Chicago area were almost double the low level of last year. Repair and remodel work may be at new peaks. Some gypsum plants are operating six-day weeks with output above rated capacity.