Overview Most available indicators of economic and business activity in the Fifth District appear to have turned positive in recent weeks. At a sample of manufacturing establishments new orders, shipments, and order backlogs have all improved. The residential real estate sector is also beginning to move with both sales and construction having recently begun to show some vigor. Modest increases in retail sales and in extensions of consumer installment credit are also evident. Labor markets have generally firmed with strength in manufacturing, construction, and agriculture overcoming the seasonal weakness in the trade sector. Prices seem generally to have remained stable. Expectations have improved dramatically since our last survey. Manufacturing There was broad improvement in business activity among District manufacturers judging from our latest survey. Orders, order backlogs, and shipments all rose across a wide range of firms and industries. There were very few reports of declining activity. Inventories were nearly flat as a slight increase in materials about offset a minor decline in finished goods. A majority of respondents find current stocks near appropriate levels, although total responses suggest that, on balance, current stock remain somewhat above desired levels. Survey responses further suggest a turnaround in the manufacturing employment picture over the month. Both employment and the length of the average work week rose since the last survey, although more narrowly than orders and shipments. Several Richmond and branch directors noted instances of recalls or increase in high hirings in their respective areas. Current plant and equipment capacity remains well in excess of present needs, but there is little sentiment for changing existing expansion plans. The strength described above appears to be developing rather generally across industries. To the extent that differences exist, primary metals and machinery and equipment are among the strongest with textiles not far behind. Paper producers appear to be among the least affected. Consumption The evidence from the consumer side is also positive. General merchandise sales have continued to firm and apparently have begun to get support from big ticket items. Retailers surveyed report a relative increase in big ticket sales and our directors associated with financial institutions have noted an increase in consumer installment loans over the past few weeks. Retailers further report inventories little changed and employment down slightly over the month. Inventories are essentially in line with desired levels, however, and the employment decline is largely seasonal. Real Estate and Housing Most indications are that in the residential real estate sector activity is picking up rapidly in many areas of the District. Sales of existing houses began improving shortly after year end and, judging from reports on mortgage credit extensions, that improvement is continuing. In addition, reports on construction employment and building permits substantiate these recent gains. Agriculture Fifth District farm credit conditions in the fourth quarter of 1982 were highlighted by the continuing decline in interest rates and a further rise in the availability of loan funds at banks. Farm loan demand generally remained soft, and requests for loan renewals and extensions increased. Farm loan repayment rates continued at a slow pace, despite a modest improvement over a year ago. While liquidity pressures on rural banks eased further, bankers maintained stiff collateral requirements. Meanwhile, farmland values rose slightly but remained well below year-earlier levels. The Outlook Perhaps the most noteworthy result of our latest survey concerns the respondents' expectations. Respondents in both the retail and manufacturing sectors are nearly unanimous in the expectation that the level of business activity will improve over the next six months. Higher levels of activity are expected at the national level as well as at the respondents respective market and establishment levels. There is apparently some concern within the business community over the prospect of rising inflation, however.