The Twelfth District economy appears to have moved out of the depths of recession and into the early stage of recovery. Consumer spending and residential construction are leading the upturn. Retail sales at department stores and auto dealerships are improving, while the decline in mortgage interest rates continues to spur a steady recovery in Western homebuilding and sales activity. Manufacturing and mining activity is picking up in a few important industries such as forest products and nonferrous metals, but most of the region's industries continue to experience extremely weak demand. District banks are beginning to more actively seek consumer loan business as an attractive investment for their large new inflow of funds into the Money Market Deposit Account. Consumer Spending Retail sales appear to have strengthened in January and to have remained stable in February despite abnormally inclement weather in some areas. Major department store chains in Southern California reported "excellent" sales results for both months, with sales for January up nearly 10 percent from a year earlier and sales in February recording a 9 percent year-to-year gain. Even in the Pacific Northwest, where sales had been extremely depressed, department stores are reporting strong year-to-year increases. Sales of both nondurable and durable goods are reported to be improving. The upturn in home sales is helping to spur sales of furniture and other big ticket household items. Interest rate concessions by automobile manufacturers, and declining gasoline prices, have stimulated sales of automobiles and recreational vehicles. Inventories at retail outlets (non-auto) are very low and it is evident that some re-stocking will have to take place soon if sales continue to pick up. Manufacturing and Mining While manufacturing and mining activity is still extremely depressed, some important Twelfth District industries are finally beginning to show some life. In the Pacific Northwest lumber industry, orders and prices have been rising in response to the recovery in national homebuilding activity, enabling numerous mills to reopen. The aluminum industry also has reactivated some idle capacity. In the Intermountain states, Arizona, Nevada, Utah, some mining facilities also have been re-opening as a result of some improvement in the demand for copper and other nonferrous metals. Layoffs continue in a number of other important industries however. In both California and Washington, the aerospace equipment manufacturing industry has continued to cut back overall employment as growth in defense-related payrolls has been insufficient to offset continued layoffs in commercial aircraft and electronic equipment programs. The move by Atari, Incorporated to move its manufacturing operations from Northern California to Hong Kong and Taiwan to reduce costs is indicative of the intense competitive pressures existent in the electronics industry. The decline in oil prices is depressing oil drilling activity and revenues in Alaska and California and causing layoffs at Intermountain coal and uranium mining sites. Construction and Real Estate The drop in mortgage interest rates continues to spur a further recovery in homebuilding and sales activity. Housing starts in the West are now running at more than double the post-World War II low reached a year ago, and permit activity points to still further gains in the months ahead. Sales of new homes also are increasing, but the inventory of unsold homes still remains high in some areas, particularly Southern California. Home prices are reported to be rising again. In contrast, commercial development and construction activity is clearly slowing, and the completion of office buildings started earlier has led to a rise in unused office space. Agriculture Rain storms and flooding have seriously damaged the California farm sector this winter, causing crop losses estimated at around $300 million. About 20 percent of the state's normal winter wheat harvest has been lost. Other important fruit and vegetable crops such as lettuce, artichokes, asparagus and strawberries have suffered serious damage, causing some increase in prices. But the strongest pressure on prices could come around May and June, because of delays in plantings of processing tomatoes and an array of other vegetables. Also, the storm is threatening the tree fruit and nut crop by preventing pollination of blooming orchards. Despite recent price increases, District farmers and ranchers expect 1983 to be another difficult year, with net income showing little, if any, improvement over 1982's depressed level. The acreage cutback under the Federal payment-in-kind program will help stabilize income for producers of grains and cotton, but only permit them to "survive" for another year. Financial Institutions Loan growth at Twelfth District commercial banks remains weak. Instead of turning to banks, businesses are taking advantage of improved bond and equity markets. Mortgage lending remains weak, as the upturn in housing takes time to translate into mortgage borrowing. Consumer lending is showing some signs of a pickup however. Captive finance companies providing discount financing on auto loans, for example, are experiencing a strong demand for credit, which in turn is helping to boost auto sales. One large California bank has already started offering auto loan rates that are competitive with finance company rates. Other banks appear ready to more actively promote consumer loans, given their relatively high yield and the need to invest the sizable volume of new funds generated by the MMDA's. With the continued strong inflow of funds into MMDA's, these accounts now represent nearly 20 percent of total domestic deposits of District banks.