Summary Most respondents in the Fourth District expect that further weakening in capital spending and sluggishness in consumer spending will contribute to another slight decline in overall economic activity this quarter and next. Recent improvements in consumer spending and housing, however, have raised the possibility that real economic activity will increase in the fourth quarter, according to some officials. Recent strength in real retail sales may have been supported in part by a slim return to credit card usage, but most retailers and bankers doubt that the consumer sector will provide much impetus to a recovery until mid-1981. Respondents tend to be skeptical over reduced consumer inflation rates in August, and are concerned about a return to double-digit rates in 1981. Savings flows have improved slightly, but lenders anticipate that recent marginal gains in mortgage lending activity are likely to be dampened as mortgage rates in the District have firmed. Outlook Although most respondents still expect a trough in the fourth quarter, several expect real GNP growth in the fourth quarter to be zero or slightly positive. Most still expect a peak-to-trough decline in real GNP of about 3 percent. A bank economist cites a revival in growth of consumer debt, the stabilizing of car sales, and the bottoming out of housing as the first signs of recovery. Negative factors most often mentioned that lessen prospects for a prompt recovery include a continued weakening of capital goods with no bottom yet in sight, rising interest rates and prices that may hold down the demand for consumer durables and housing, and a combination of low savings rates and high debt levels going into the recovery that will limit the ability of consumers to increase spending substantially. Weakening in capital goods is likely to continue into next year and, according to a durable-goods producer, declines in the capital-goods sector will partly offset strengthening in consumer goods and housing. A producer of household goods expects that it will be the end of 1981 before the economy gets back to pre- recession levels of real economic activity. Steel The steel industry has experienced a reversal from the steep decline in orders that began in March, and operating rates in the industry should rise gradually from the 50-55 percent rates experienced in June and July. However, the 20-25 percent increase in new orders in late July and August was still 20 percent below February and March levels, according to an industry economist. Although the source of the order strength is widespread, much of the improvement is due to an ending of inventory liquidation. Demand related to oil field equipment remains strong, but demand from machine tools and construction customers is easing and cancellations are reported from railroads. However, a better-than-expected upturn in auto sales this fall may produce a rush to re-stock steel inventories. Autos Auto sales in July were higher than the underlying rate of demand (9 million units), according to an industry economist, but sales for August and September should be below that rate (8.4 and 8.6 million units, respectively). While some purchases may have been advanced by dealer and producer promotions, many buyers are thought to be awaiting the 1981 models. The price of many of the new models will be above imports, but an auto supplier notes that fuel- efficiency should be comparable and domestic models will be larger, safer, and more stylish than imports. A steel economist reports that orders from the auto industry indicate a conservative production schedule, averaging 9.9 million units for 1981. A manager of several area dealerships expects no strong increase in auto sales until next March and has reduced his inventories and staff to the lowest levels of any time. Consumer Spending Retail sales in August rose again in real terms particularly for soft-goods, but remain weak for furniture and appliances. An economist in the appliance industry reports that orders continue to be weak, but declines have moderated, with orders 10 percent below last year in real terms. Several bankers report some increase in credit card usage in August by existing cardholders. However, retailers report cash sales up, but credit card usage has not shown any improvement since the decline in April. An economist for a major retail chain believes that a prerequisite for a sustained consumer recovery is increased credit card usage, because incomes will remain depressed by further price increases. Most producers and retailers expect a slower-than-usual recovery in consumer spending. They assume a tax cut and increased small car availability that should improve retail sales by early 1981. Inflation Despite moderation in consumer prices in August because of lower mortgage rates, most respondents expect upward price pressures through the first half of 1981. They view the underlying rate of inflation to remain about 9-10 percent. An auto economist expects consumer prices to rise from 8.1 percent in the third quarter to 12.7 percent in the first quarter of 1981, before dropping back to 8.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 1981. Food prices are a major factor in the expected acceleration in the inflation rate, but several economists express hope that tight monetary control would reduce the rate further in 1982. Loan Demand Loan activity in the District remains weak. Consumer loans continue to decline in most areas and business loans are still on a low plateau. An area banker expects some seasonal pickup in consumer loans in the fall, but notes that consumers seem more concerned about paying back loans. However, an auto dealer is encouraged by the increasing interest of banks in financing auto sales. Business lending remains soft, but banks are now more active in the commercial paper market. A durable-goods producer states that many firms are more liquid now since inventories have been reduced. Loan demand will continue to be weak in early 1981 because of better cash flow during the early stage of recovery, according to a bank economist. Savings flows improved slightly among banks and S&Ls, especially in passbook accounts. Several respondents note a tendency among customers to prefer liquidity over higher paying time deposits with withdrawal penalties, which typically occurs when times are uncertain. Mortgage Lending Mortgage activity, especially loan commitments, picked up in July and early August, but loans are still 30 to 40 percent below year-earlier levels. Although builders were never too optimistic about a recovery in housing, according to an economist with a regional FHLB in this District, rising mortgage rates could postpone a recovery until 1981. Housing starts may be erratic over the balance of this year, and average about a 1.3 million rate monthly. Mortgage rates rose about 1 percentage point last month according to an S&L official, because lenders are more sensitive to rate changes in secondary markets and to cost of funds. Although most respondents expect a downward trend in mortgage rates because of improved deposit flows, current rates offered by banks are generally at 13 percent plus points, while S&Ls offer rates that range from 12-1/4 to 12-3/4 percent plus points.