0verview Business conditions continue to be poor in the Tenth District, with only residential construction showing some improvement. Consumer spending is showing no vigor and retailers are generally pessimistic about prospects for the rest of this year. Manufacturing may be slowing further, judging from reports of plentiful supplies of materials. Inventories of materials of producers and of goods at retail are considered to be at satisfactory low levels. Prices of materials and of retail goods are stabilizing somewhat. Corn, sorghum, and soybeans have been hit hard by the heat and drought; the yields of these crops are expected to be only about three-fourths or less of the harvest once anticipated. Agricultural credit appears adequate. Bank deposits are increasing, but loan demand is flat. Interest rates have taken an upward turn. Bankers are about evenly split on the question of where the prime rate will go in the months ahead. Most savings and loan officers, however, expect further increases in mortgage rates. Retail Sales and Inventories Retail sales in recent weeks are down from their pace a year ago. Sales of durable goods are off the most. Retailers are now absorbing rather than passing on increases in merchandise costs. Store managers expecting weak sales through Christmas, are holding down inventories and currently have their stocks of goods at satisfactory levels. Materials Prices, Availability, and Inventories. Purchasing agents note an easing in the rate of increase of input prices. Inputs are readily available, with most lead times shorter than normal. Inventories of materials have been cut; most purchasing agents plan to maintain the current low levels. Several companies have recently reduced their orders for materials; about half have some workers on layoff and are operating at less than full capacity. Homebuilding and Mortgage Rates Homebuilders associations report that new home prices have resumed rising. Despite slow sales, the inventory of unsold new houses is not considered a problem. Building materials are readily available at rising prices. Shutdowns by suppliers, however, are causing concern over a possible materials shortage next year. Homebuilding activity picked up somewhat during the summer, but the outlook remains mixed, with builders keeping a close watch on mortgage rates. Rates on conventional mortgages have risen recently to their current level of 12 3/4 per cent. Mortgage demand was fairly strong for most of the summer, but has slowed of late. Executives of savings and loan associations expect mortgage rates to increase to the 14 to 15 per cent range by the end of the year, despite some expected improvement in savings inflows. Agriculture USDA sources estimate a reduction of 25 per cent in District corn production and a decline of 30 per cent in the production of both soybeans and sorghum this year, due to the drought and hot weather. The Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) has applied a disaster designation to all Missouri and Oklahoma counties and to 70 per cent of the Kansas counties, thus making farmers in these counties eligible for low-interest FmHA loans. Additionally, some counties in Nebraska are presently being considered for disaster designation. The declines in crop production throughout the Tenth District probably will mean lower net farm income, but these declines will be partially offset by higher grain prices. Winter Wheat Planting Conditions Many areas in the District have received moisture in the past few weeks and the heat has abated somewhat. Therefore, expectations of good planting conditions for the winter wheat crop are reported throughout most of the District states. Agricultural Credit. Credit conditions for agriculture appear favorable throughout the District, with most states reporting interest rates in the 13-14 per cent range. Most bankers are not optimistic about net farm income this year, but they do not expect a larger-than-normal number of farmers to be in financial difficulty at yearend. Loan Demand Loan demand remains flat at most banks. The exceptions include some banks in Oklahoma and New Mexico where loans are up due to relatively robust local economies, and some rural banks where loans are down because of seasonal factors associated with agriculture. Agricultural and consumer loans show the greatest weakness. Business loans are generally flat, while real estate loans are level or rising. Loan demand is generally anticipated to be level in the near future. Prime Rates All banks contacted raised their prime or base lending rates in the last month. Most of the metropolitan area bankers currently quote prime rates of 11 1/2 per cent, but a few are at 12 per cent. Base fees for local loans at some country banks remain somewhat higher, 13 per cent or more. About half the bankers expect their prime rates to ease somewhat in the months ahead, to perhaps 10 per cent by yearend. The other half, however, expect the prime to be steady or up slightly over the next few months. Bank Deposits Bank deposits have been level or rising in recent months. Small-denomination, floating-rate certificates show the greatest strength. Other deposits also appear firm. Bankers expect level-to-rising deposit growth in the near future. Rural bankers appeared to be most optimistic, citing seasonal factors associated with harvests.