Summary Economists and officials in the Fourth District see signs that weakness in economic activity is spreading, and most respondents have lowered their forecasts of real GNP growth to show sizable decline for the fourth quarter. Despite reports of spot weaknesses in capital spending, orders are still relatively strong. However, steel orders continue to be weak, apparently because inventories are being liquidated. Consumer spending in the District has deteriorated in recent months, and several respondents are concerned that pre-Christmas inventories are too high. Commercial bank lending is relatively strong for C&I loans, but is virtually flat for consumer loans. S&Ls have attracted a limited amount of new funds with the All-Savers certificate, but continue to experience weak or negative net savings flows. Outlook Economists who attended the Fourth District Round Table on October 30 at this bank scaled down their forecasts of economic activity for the fourth quarter of 1981 and the first quarter of 1982 from their June forecasts. The median of 31 forecasts shows only a 0.5 percent annual rate of decline in real GNP this quarter. However, nearly a third of the group indicated that the decline is more likely to be between 3 percent to 5 percent (a.r.), because signs of weakness are spreading and deepening. They expect some downward adjustment in inventory investment, and continued (though less severe) declines in residential construction and net exports this quarter from last. All of the forecasters expect revival of growth in real GNP by next spring; the median forecast shows annual rates of increase of 4.5 percent to 5 percent in the second half of 1982, in response to further moderation in inflation and the second stage of personal income-tax cuts. From the fourth quarter of 1981 to the fourth quarter of 1982, the median forecast shows an increase in real GNP of 4.0 percent and an increase in the GNP implicit-price deflator of 7.6 percent. About two-thirds of the forecasters now expect money stock (M-1B) growth in 1981 will remain below the target range, and most have scaled upward their estimates of the Federal deficit for FY 1982 by $10 to $20 billion from their June range of $45 billion to $55 billion. Capital Goods Capital-goods producers report mixed conditions, with no recent significant decline for some goods but depressed business for others. Capital spending plans are still near their planned levels of a year-ago, according to several respondents, despite high interest rates and a weakening economy. A capital-goods producer states that heavy-duty trucks and farm equipment remain depressed. However, energy and electronics industries are expected to continue to be strong, while nonresidential construction is holding up reasonably well. Capital-goods orders, according to an economist for a major capital-goods manufacturer, are still strong, except in railroad-related equipment, auto-related metal cutting, and construction equipment. However, a small producer of industrial lift trucks reports that incoming orders are the lowest in the company's history. Steel Current operating rates in steel average less than 70 percent of capacity, according to an industry economist, with order intake rates equivalent to slightly above half of operating capacity. Steel consumers are attempting to liquidate inventories at a time when imports remain relatively high. The high level of orders last spring and summer was supported by a 3 million ton inventory buildup and strong demands from the oil industry. However, steel consumers are expected to liquidate 1.5-2.0 million tons of inventory this quarter. Some forecasts of domestic steel consumption and production in 1982 show increases of a few percent from 1981, but not until after the liquidation phase is completed by next spring. Consumer Goods Round Table participants expect that consumer spending will weaken again in the fourth quarter of 1981, following the spurt last quarter. Some see signs that the weakness in consumer spending has spread into major household goods and even into some consumer nondurable goods. Weakness in auto sales has been complicated by the lack of new models this season, according to an auto industry economist. He also pointed out that deterioration in consumer balance sheets and a weak economy for another six months will hinder a rebound in new car sales. He asserted that high interest rates have only cost the industry about half a million sales during 1981, but that the main cause of weakness has been inflation. A local auto dealer reports sales down 20 percent over year-ago levels and down 65 percent from 1978 levels. District retail sales have deteriorated somewhat in September and October, according to a bank economist. Merchants are anticipating a pick-up in sales as the Christmas shopping season approaches, but sizable inventories may require considerable discounting before the end of the year. A producer of consumer-durable goods reports that order cancellations are occurring, resulting in substantial layoffs in some appliances. Another economist pointed out that the decline in real nondurable goods, excluding gasoline sales, coupled with a substantial drop in corrugated box shipments in the last two months, suggests weakness in the economy is spreading and that an upper turning point in the business cycle may have occurred in August or September. Banking Business lending activity in the District continues to be supported in part by inventory financing, rather than merger-related activity. Bank loans are increasingly important to both large and small companies, according to a bank economist, because trade credit is scarce. Large and small companies have slowed payments, forcing some to borrow because of delinquent payments. A banker is concerned that firms may be borrowing to pay interest on previous loans. Lending activity, however, is expected to fall in the fourth quarter of 1981, as the economy weakens and businesses reduce year-end inventories. Consumer lending has been flat for the last three months, according to an area banker, and remains well below the peak of March 1980. A rise in delinquent rates on loans is causing some concern. Savings Flows The All-Savers certificate, intended to ease both liquidity and earnings pressures, has not worked as well as expected. A large S&L in the District reports another substantial quarterly loss in the third quarter, associated with a further rise in costs and a sharp decline in mortgage loans (55 percent below a year earlier). Nevertheless, the S&L reports that revenues exceeded year-ago levels and the All-Savers certificate experienced strong growth in early October. A bank economist reports some shift to All-Savers from money-market certificates, but cautions that much of the All-Savers growth is derived from passbook savings accounts. An economist for a FHLB in the District notes that growth of All-Savers dropped 80 percent from the first ten-day period to the second ten-day period in October. Retail repos, which have been tied to the All-Savers, were negligible in October. All-Savers is not having much adverse effect on money-market funds, according to a bank economist, and S&Ls are unlikely to achieve sizable net savings inflows until an instrument is created to compete with money-market funds.