Twelfth District respondents report that economic activity has slowed considerably over the past month. Consumer spending has dropped, particularly for durable goods. In the manufacturing and mining sectors, layoffs and production cutbacks have increased and spread to more industries. The slump in District homebuilding activity and home sales has deepened. Farmers are experiencing financial strain as a result of rising costs and declining commodity prices. Commercial and consumer loan demand has slowed due to the shelving of capital investment programs and reduced consumer spending. Mortgage lending activity at financial institutions is still extremely slow. Banks face intense competitive pressures from higher-interest bearing market instruments. Consumer Spending Respondents report a further slowdown in retail sales, with most of the decline occurring in durables. Sales of new automobiles have dropped sharply from the September pace and are running far below the year-ago level. Respondents attribute the drop to the price-sensitivity of consumers and their uncertainty with regard to the future. Now that dealer rebates have been eliminated and higher-priced 1982-models introduced, new cars sales have once again slumped. Sales of lower-priced used cars in contrast are strong. Purchases of other expensive durable goods, such as furniture and appliances, also have slowed and are running below year-earlier levels in real terms. Sales of apparel and other nondurable goods are reported to be holding up better than durable goods. Retailers generally expect a slow Christmas season. Manufacturing and Mining Respondents report further cutbacks in production and employment among industries that already were depressed, such as construction, lumber and metals. They trace this growing weakness to the deepening slump in the homebuilding, automobile and appliance industries which comprise the major national markets for these regional products. Western lumber production continues to drop and is currently running about 40 percent below the 1978-peak. Copper producers in Arizona and Utah are cutting production. The aerospace equipment manufacturing industry has been cutting employment as a result of a further slowdown in commercial orders. New orders for jet transports have slowed to a trickle due to the poor financial performance of the nation's airlines. Semiconductor firms in California are planning extended shutdowns during the Thanksgiving and Christmas holiday periods to reduce excess inventories accumulated as a result of cutbacks in business equipment spending. Industries that had been expanding, for example, the paper industry, have begun to cut back production, indicating that weakness in demand is spreading. Real Estate Respondents report a further slowdown in homebuilding activity and home sales, from already severely-depressed levels. They cite numerous indications of the financial distress being experienced by builders and realtors as a result of the depressed residential market. These include a growing number of incomplete projects, foreclosures and business failures. Homes are not moving, despite reduction in prices and the "buying down" of market mortgage rates by builders. As a result, a growing number of builders are resorting to auctioning to dispose of property. Nonresidential construction also is reported to be slowing as firms shelve planned capital investment programs. Agriculture Twelfth District farmers and ranchers are finding it difficult to keep up with inflation. Harvests of nearly all major crops are up sharply from 1980-levels. But prices for a wide range of farm products, including cattle, wheat, cotton, nuts and certain fruits and vegetables, have been declining and in some cases are running below year-ago levels. Faced with higher than year-earlier production and interest costs and lower commodity prices, farmers are experiencing a severe cost-price squeeze. Bountiful harvests and declining export demand, resulting from weakness in overseas economies and the strength of the dollar, have been responsible for the erosion in prices for some products. In the case of fruits and vegetables, fears about possible Medfly infestation continue to reduce demand and prices for California products. Financial Institutions Bankers report a slowdown in overall loan growth in October. Commercial and industrial loan demand for capital spending purposes has been decreasing due to growing excess capacity. Real estate borrowing has picked up slightly but is still very low compared with previous years. Consumer borrowing from banks is reported to be extremely slow due to tight credit terms and cautious consumer buying patterns. The money market mutual funds continue to siphon off bank deposits. A few large banks have been attempting to retain deposits by offering cash management services to large commercial customers. But these innovations are not yet a widespread phenomenon among various sized banks and customer groups. The All Savers Certificate is believed to have merely transferred low-cost savings balances to higher-cost instruments within the same institutions.