Overview Most indications are that the number of soft spots in the Fifth District economy increased over the past month. In the manufacturing sector, weakness which began to develop in September has spread and become pervasive in some industries, textiles and primary metals in particular. Retail sales continue to be depressed by very weak demand for durable goods, including autos, and building materials. Residential construction continues very slow despite pockets of relative strength, but commercial and industrial construction is still lending support to the industry. Several of our Directors cite an increasing incidence of financial difficulties among auto dealers, farm machinery and equipment dealers, construction firms, and even some wholesalers. With further improvement in crop production prospects and flue-cured tobacco prices still running well above a year ago, the outlook for increased gross farm income in 1981 continues favorable. Manufacturing Responses from our sample of manufacturers suggest that on balance, shipments, new orders, and order backlogs all declined in October. Once again, inventory performance was mixed as manufacturers held stocks of materials at the September level but experienced some accumulation of finished goods. Total inventories remain well above desired levels. Employment and the length of average work week were also down markedly according to these respondents. Over half of the manufacturers surveyed find current plant and equipment capacity somewhat in excess, but there is still very little sentiment for altering current expansion plans. Interestingly, the diffusion of responses suggests an actual decline in prices received by District manufacturers and a decided reduction in the incidence of increases in prices paid. Employee compensation was virtually unchanged over the month. Among individual industries, furniture and consumer electronics continue soft while the weakness in the textile sector seems to have spread significantly in recent weeks. In addition, primary metals turned down within the latest survey period. Construction related industries, particularly stone, clay, and glass products, remain very slow. District manufacturing continues to get some support from the electrical equipment, chemicals, and shipbuilding groups, however. Consumer Spending The slump in the retail sector appears to have continued through October, and may have widened. Sales of big ticket items and building materials have certainly not improved. There are indications that consumers have begun to cut back in other areas such as apparel. Housing and Construction Construction activity does not seem to have changed much in recent weeks. Residential construction continues to be generally depressed despite pockets of substantial activity. Such areas of strength, however, may have become fewer over the last month. Other construction is still holding its own in most areas. The Financial Sector Several of our Directors from the financial sector anticipate financial problems developing among businesses in their respective areas. Their comments suggest that businesses generally are under a great deal of financial stress and that already specific problems are on the rise. Although most current problems involve auto dealers and construction firms, these Directors do not expect all future problems to be restricted to these sectors. Farm credit conditions changed little between the second and third quarters except for a further rise in interest rates. Generally, however, conditions varied quite a bit from a year ago. Farm loan demand at banks was considerably weaker, while the availability of loanable funds was much greater. Both loan repayment rates and requests for renewals or extensions indicated significant improvement. Bank interest rates on farm loans were sharply-higher. And collateral requirements were stiffer. Meanwhile, liquidity pressures facing some rural banks declined. Our Directors in the financial sector have found that most of the funds going into "all-savers" certificates are being switched from other accounts at the same institution. Individual estimates generally lie in 50 percent to 90 percent range. The Outlook Expectations held by our survey respondents took a decided turn for the worse since the last survey. Almost half of the manufacturers surveyed expect the level of general business activity nationally to decline over the next six months, and nearly as many expect a similar performance in their respective market areas. On balance, even the outlook for production in their individual firms has turned negative. Very few manufacturers expect improvement at any level over the coming two quarters and no retailer surveyed forsees any improvement nationally, locally, or for his respective firm.