Summary The recession in the Seventh District accelerated in the past six weeks. Virtually all sectors showed new weakness, producer and consumer goods manufacturing, construction, retail trade, transportation, services, and government. Perhaps the only sector reporting real growth is medical care, including the manufacture of hospital supplies and equipment. Signs of financial stringency in business and agriculture are widespread. Inventories are being reduced, because of poor sales in some cases, but primarily to reduce cash needs. Demand for workers may be at the lowest level since the 1930s. Price discounting is common in wholesale markets, but much less so at retail. Capital expenditure programs are being curtailed, and many equipment producers plan reduced operations and extended Christmas shutdowns. Retailers report disappointing sales of both hard and soft goods. Auto and truck output is being slashed. Housing is near rock bottom and most nonresidential construction is weak. Excellent harvests are pulling downward pressure on farm prices and farm income. Recent declines in interest rates are helping to boost sagging morale, but substantial further declines are needed to stimulate depressed sectors. Pessimism prevails Our last Redbook contribution emphasized the failure of expected improvements in demand to materialize. Now attention centers on cutbacks in output and spending plans. Fourth quarter shipments of motor vehicles, steel, building materials, and various producer and consumer durables will be significantly below last year's unsatisfactory rates. Reports of layoffs and plant closings, temporary or permanent, are widespread. The heaviest blows are scheduled for the mid-December/mid-January period, preceding and following the normal Christmas shutdowns. Unlike most earlier post-1945 slowdowns, declines are not balanced by increases in employment in services and government, or by prosperity in the farm sector. In fact, these sectors are reinforcing weakness elsewhere. Despite general pessimism, most businessmen and analysts expect a revival in the future, but the timing has been pushed back to next spring or early summer. Foreign competition The high value of the dollar is encouraging imports and discouraging exports of various items, but particularly motor vehicles, steel, and machine tools. Demand from Europe for district producer goods is depressed. However, some companies, especially construction equipment producers, report increased demand from the Southern Hemisphere and the Middle East, partly reflecting stepped-up sales efforts. Labor negotiations Many district employers are demanding concessions by labor unions on wages, COLAs, medical insurance, pensions and other fringes. Some are emphasizing changes in work rules to improve productivity. Results of these efforts have been mixed, with success usually dependent on a realization that plants would be closed or activities drastically curtailed if agreement was not reached. Foreign and nonunion competition play large roles in these negotiations. Confrontations will be frequent and prolonged, especially in trucking, motor vehicles, steel, and meat packing. Prices and inventories Price discounting is reported in various wholesale markets, notably in steel, nonferrous metals, and building materials. Company analysts insist that the "pipelines are virtually empty". With output reduced and capacity being withdrawn, a revival in demand could bring a resurgence in price increases in these sectors. Profit margins of manufacturers, retailers, and utilities are low or nonexistent, and prices will be raised as soon as supply and demand come into balance. Capital expenditures Many companies are canceling or postponing major capital spending projects. Most prominent is the auto industry, where spending plans have been scaled down drastically. A sizable drop in interest rates would reactivate plans for many smaller commercial and industrial buildings, but the adjustment in auto industry plans reflects inadequate cash flow resulting from poor sales. Given an uptrend in demand the 1981 Tax Act will aid the eventual recovery in capital spending. Cars and trucks Motor vehicle sales in October dropped to new lows, and resulted in further cutbacks in production schedules for late 1981 and early 1982. Output of heavy-duty trucks has been cut very sharply. The auto industry blames high interest rates for poor sales, but high prices, lack of appeal of heralded new models, the depressed economy, and consumer caution are probably more important. Retailing Sales of both hard and soft goods are weak except when pushed by heavy promotions and price cuts. Credit buyers are being screened more closely. Some analysts believe that All Savers CDs and the new IRA accounts will adversely affect consumption of nonessentials. Stores have ordered cautiously for the Christmas season. Housing Builders see a ray of light in the recent, slight easing of mortgage rates, but even a substantial cut in rates will not help the extremely low level of construction activity this year. However, builders would begin to make commitments for materials for a fast start in 1982. Conventional financing is virtually nil. Most creative financing, in effect, cuts asking prices on homes by as much as 20 percent, but this does not show up in published data. Government State and local governments have been postponing construction projects, curtailing services, restricting hirings, and even laying off workers, (unprecedented since the 1930s). The reasons include reduced tax collections, less federal aid, increased welfare claims, high interest rates, and union demands. On November 3, moreover, voters rejected 75 percent of the proposed tax increases, usually by wide margins. Agriculture Corn and soybean harvests are rapidly nearing completion, and production estimates have been raised further. Prospects for a large crop carryover suggest no improvement in prices, now about 20 percent below last year. Soybean exports are above last year but corn is down. Market speculation centers on the probable size and composition of Soviet purchases. Farm land prices rose one percent in the third quarter and were 8.5 percent above last year, according to our survey, but there are signs that demand for land is weakening. Bankers report slower repayment on production loans and more extensions and renewals. Credit is available to farmers at current rates, but loan demand is slow.