Summary Economic activity in the Tenth District continues to soften, except where the energy and recreation industries are especially important. Retail sales, including new automobiles sales, are slow and retail inventories are somewhat higher than desired. Price increases are also moderating, however. Farm income remains under pressure from low prices for output. Loan demand at District banks is mixed, and deposit growth remains sluggish. Retail Trade The majority of Tenth District retailers report that nominal sales in the January-September 1981 period were only slightly higher than in the January-September 1980 period. In addition, most retailers report softness in October 1981 sales, relative to the first nine months of the year. Greatest weakness is in sales of big ticket items, such as appliances, furniture, and fine jewelry, while some strength exists in sales of women's apparel and winter clothing. Retailers note downward pressure on profit margins due to soft sales, despite only small increases in merchandise costs. All retailers indicate that current inventory levels are too high, due largely to weak sales. Excess stocks are expected to disappear by yearend, however, as most District retailers express optimism about sales in the coming holiday season. Automobile Sales Tenth District Automobile Dealers Associations report auto sales markedly below last year at this time, with the exception of Oklahoma where a strong economy is supporting an increase in sales of over 10 percent. High interest rates continue to plague the industry, forcing dealers to carry low inventories which may also be having a depressing effect on sales. While financing is available, fewer people are able to afford the high interest rates and larger downpayments required by banks carrying auto loans. Auto sales for the remainder of the year are expected to be slow unless interest rates decline and the economy strengthens. Agriculture The agricultural situation in the Tenth District continues to appear depressed with little prospect for improvement by the end of the year. There is little prospect for improvement in farm income levels for 1981 as compared to 1980, given the continuing low prices received by farmers for both crops and livestock. Despite excellent pasture and range conditions throughout the District, most cattle producers do not intend to hold calves or feeder steers through the winter. Although cattle prices are expected to increase by spring, most ranchers are marketing their calves now in order to meet their current debt obligations. The availability of credit does not appear to be a significant problem at most District banks, and credit from agricultural merchants and dealers continues to be available in most areas. However, concern is being expressed over the creditworthiness of borrowers. Persistent low commodity prices, for both crops and livestock, coupled with the high cost of borrowing leads to continuing repayment difficulties for farmers. District bankers estimate that in 1982 the number of agricultural customers no longer creditworthy will be twice as large as in a normal year. Financial Conditions Reported loan demand at Tenth District banks is mixed this month. Commercial and industrial lending is strong where energy or recreation industries are important, but only stable or up slightly in other areas. Very little demand is reported for real estate loans, except for commercial real estate lending in those areas with healthy economic activity. Agricultural and consumer loan demand remained essentially flat in recent weeks. Prime lending rates have dropped 150 to 200 basis points in the last month to the 17 1/2 to 18 percent level. Several banks report more stringent lending policies, with greater emphasis on the creditworthiness of the borrower. Deposit growth at Tenth District banks remained sluggish in the past month, despite the introduction al the all-savers certificates. Volume on these certificates is reported as mixed. New money comprised 17 to 30 percent of the total, with the remainder of the funds for the all-savers certificates usually coming from a different account within the same bank. Demand deposits, and consumer time and savings deposits subject to fixed ceiling rates, declined in most areas. NOW accounts, money market certificates, and small saver certificates at most banks displayed stable growth. Large CD growth is up in most areas, particularly those where the level of economic activity is high.