Summary Expansion continues in District economic activity. Employment rose in District states in January, seasonally adjusted, except in Michigan where layoffs at auto and parts plants cut manufacturing payrolls. For February, Chicago purchasing managers again report robust increases in orders, output, and backlogs; higher inventories; rising employment; longer delays in obtaining deliveries; and widespread price increases. Reports from industrial concerns show vigorously rising demand for equipment, steel, and other industrial materials. Recently improved car sales and large first quarter production cuts, including many at District plants, are bringing auto stocks into better balance. Construction activity in the District is viewed as likely to remain at a high level in 1988, but some segments are expected to be below 1987, notably starts on commercial projects. Reports on consumer spending in early 1988 were mixed. Conditions and prospects are improving in agriculture and related industries, with land values rising and farm equipment sales higher. Manufacturing The industrial sector in the District continues the robust expansion evident late last year. A maker of large construction machinery reports some types of equipment on allocation, and the order backlog highest in several years. Equipment orders from paper and steel mills, for expansion and modernization, are described as "extremely strong." Rising capital spending is also reported by makers of chemicals and plastics. In response to the lower dollar, production of equipment and components is increasingly being shifted back to the U.S. from abroad, but this shift has been gradual because of contractual relationships. Demand is up for mining equipment and railcars, from low levels. Machine tool orders and backlogs are up but remain far below strong levels of the late 1970s and early 1980s. Manufacturers continue to evaluate expansion projects cautiously, particularly in heavy equipment industries which were hard-hit by the severe downturn of the early 1980s. Closings of older, inefficient plants in the District continue to be reported, as part of producers' efforts to pare costs. Motor Vehicles In response to somewhat better than expected car sales, second quarter auto production schedules have been adjusted upward almost to levels of a year ago. The improved second quarter outlook follows sizable first quarter reductions in assemblies at numerous plants in the District. Permanent closing of another assembly plant, in Wisconsin, was announced recently. Truck sales and production have remained very strong. Steel Production at steel plants in the District continues strong. Orders for cold-rolled and coated sheet are at good levels into the second quarter, even with the cutbacks in auto output schedules. Hot-rolled sheet and plate orders have increased reflecting investment projects in the paper and petrochemicals industries. Buying of steel for construction projects has been very strong, with no seasonal downturn in bidding after the turn of the year. Increases are reported in industrial construction projects, which are mainly steel. Supplies are tight, customers would take more steel if they could get it, resulting in upward pressures on prices. The volume of steel shipped through steel warehouses continues to set records month after month. Construction The picture for construction in the District is mixed, with activity generally at a high level, but declining in some sectors. Building activity in the District in January was lower than last year, attributed to more normal weather this winter after exceptionally mild conditions in early 1987, and lower residential mortgage interest rates a year ago. For all of last year, contracts for construction of nonresidential buildings in District states, in square feet, were 11 percent above a year earlier, and residential contracts were 5 percent higher, both stronger performances than the nation. Fewer starts on commercial projects in the Chicago area are expected this year, but most of the large amount of office space being built downtown is not scheduled for completion until 1989 or later, implying a high level of activity on projects already underway. Construction of Chicago-area industrial building is increasing, mainly light warehouse structures, after being very low. Strong leasing of Chicago-area industrial space is expected to continue. Industrial construction is also rising elsewhere in the District, including some new plants. Public works construction, highway, sewer, and water, will be strong in 1988. Consumer Spending February sales reports from large retailers in the District were mixed. A survey of Illinois retailers for January showed a small decline in total sales, attributed to weather, after a "healthy" gain in 1987. A contact with a major retailer believes the consumer sector is in better shape than many people think. Consumer confidence is up; wages have accelerated (though not much); and relatively large tax refunds are expected to boost spendable incomes this year. General merchandise inventories are viewed as in reasonable balance. Farm Equipment Unit retail sales of farm equipment continued well above year- earlier levels in January, extending a trend that began in the latter part of 1987. During the past seven months, farm tractor sales were up 35 percent from the year ago pace and the highest for the period in three years. Similarly, combine sales in the five months ending with January were up 46 percent from a year earlier and also at a 3-year high. Because of the surge in sales, unsold inventories of new tractors and combines, relative to annual sales, are now at the lowest levels since the late 1970s and early l980s. The comparatively low inventories, coupled with expectations of at least further modest gains in sales, raise hopes that long-depressed farm equipment production in the District may begin to recover in the months ahead.