Summary Respondents in most areas of the District continue to report moderate growth, although concerns about slowing near-term growth are rising. Conditions in resource-related industries are improved generally: agricultural conditions continue to improve for most crop and livestock producers; lumber prices remain high with low inventories; and energy-related industries, although not expanding, report activity above year-earlier levels. Residential and nonresidential construction has been weakening in many parts of the District. Manufacturing activity is mixed, with gains reported in resource-processing and export-related industries, but slowdowns reported in construction and defense-related manufacturing. Lending activity remains mixed, as lower interest rates have prevented the erosion of business, but have not stimulated increases. Business Sentiment Nearly all respondents anticipate slowing national growth this year, but none expects a recession. Respondents generally expect below average housing starts, slight increases in the growth of business investment, slight decreases in consumer spending growth, and significant shrinkage in the trade deficit. On average, respondents expect slight increases in both inflation and unemployment rates this year. Agriculture and Resource Related Industries Survey responses indicate strengthening in the agriculture sector. Higher prices, caused by increased exports and government-induced production cuts, together with lower interest rates, have helped increase land prices in most areas of the District. Crop farmers have reduced their debt burdens significantly as their incomes have risen. Grain processors report record revenues, although they expect reduced storage income this year because of reduced inventories. The domestic wine industry reports strong gains from reduced import competition. A cattle rancher reports the best conditions since 1975 and expects conditions to strengthen further over the next 2 to 3 years. Farmers and ranchers in California, however, express concern about possible income losses arising from the imposition of Proposition 65, the state's initiative to limit the use of toxic substances. The forest products industry reports strong prices and low inventories of logs. Respondents expect a decline in demand, however, based on reduced housing starts nationally. Pulp and paper production remains at almost 100 percent of capacity, causing sharp increases in newspaper and publishing costs. In the mining sector, conditions are improved from year-earlier. The drilling rig count is above year-earlier, although normal seasonal declines are occurring and few in the industry expect further gains this year. Recent declines in oil prices have not yet had a significant effect on exploration and development plans, which included increased investment in Alaska. Metal mining activity continues to rebound in Arizona and Utah as a result of higher prices for copper and gold, reduced wage rates, and improved extraction technology. Retail Sales Retail sales in February were up only 2.2 percent from year-earlier, but retailers are waiting for the Easter season to get a good reading on consumer spending plans. Retailers report rising prices for some imported goods, although not all of the dollar's decline has been passed along. Inventories are reported to be at or slightly below desired levels for most retailers. Used auto prices are rising, but dealers report that consumers are waiting for new incentive programs before buying new autos. Auto inventories are up, but dealers expect reduced output by major auto makers to begin to reduce those inventories. Manufacturing The outlook for manufacturing is mixed. The falling dollar has improved the competitiveness of domestic producers, but defense and construction-related manufacturers face slowing or negative growth. Current orders should sustain aerospace employment for the next several years, but the completion of several large defense contracts may begin to reduce employment this year in many defense-related industries. Construction-related industries expect reduced sales following the drop in housing starts. Respondents report declines in heavy equipment sales for housing and commercial construction, but report some gains in sales for nonbuilding construction. Increased prices of steel and other imported raw materials are appearing in equipment costs. Computer-related firms report rising sales, with the semiconductor book-to-bill ratio indicating a growing backlog of orders. Electronic component sales to industrial consumers also are reported to be strong with inventories declining. Construction Construction has weakened overall, although urban areas of Oregon and Washington report strong housing permits. Construction was particularly weak in Alaska (a 7 year low), Utah (down 46 percent in 1987), and Idaho. Residential and commercial construction also has slowed in California, but activity remains relatively high. Some growth is reported in nonbuilding construction in many areas of the West. Finance Lower interest rates have improved the outlook of respondents in the finance sector, although loan demand has not increased significantly. The decline in rates is generally credited with preventing a drop in loan demand by increasing consumer optimism, but does not appear to have caused an increase in demand by making loans sufficiently more affordable. Several respondents expect a refinancing boom if fixed-rate mortgages drop an additional 50 to 75 basis points. Several respondents also cite problems obtaining high- quality loan applications.