Overview District economic activity expanded in February, although homebuilding and housing sales were unchanged, and retail sales declined. Manufacturers reported strong growth, and they are optimistic about growth prospects in the next six months. District retailers, too, are optimistic about growth prospects in the next six months, despite sluggish sales in recent weeks. Financial institutions report higher loan demand in all major categories, and bankers share the optimism of retailers and producers. Agriculture is reported to be in generally better condition than a year ago. Consumer Spending Thirty-eight percent of the District retailers responding to our regular mail survey reported declines in sales in February, while 30 percent reported increases. Many respondents indicated that they had increased discounting and promotions since the beginning of the year. Although the majority of the respondents indicated no change in inventories, 32 percent reported increases. Two-thirds of the retailers expect increases in sales in the next six months, compared to 14 percent who expect declines. Reports from department stores generally indicated weaker activity than in the retail sector as a whole. Half of the department store respondents said sales declined during February, while 25 percent said sales had increased. Nearly 70 percent experienced declines in sales of big ticket items. Department stores also reported slight declines in employment and little change in inventories. Manufacturing and Mining District manufacturing activity increased in February compared to its pace in January. Forty-six percent of the respondents to our survey reported higher shipments in February, up from 34 percent who reported increases in January. Reports of reduced shipments remained at only about 15 percent. Increases were also reported in new orders, backlogs of orders, employment, and the length of the workweek. About half of our respondents reported that inventories of finished goods and raw materials were unchanged from a month earlier, while about one-third reported increases. The prices of raw materials and finished products rose further, according to District manufacturers. One-third said they had raised their product prices, and 64 percent said the prices they paid for raw materials had risen. Almost none reported price reductions. In addition, two-thirds of our survey respondents who use imported materials noted price increases in these inputs since the beginning of the year. Manufacturers expert their activity to continue to rise in the next six months. About 48 percent of the respondents believe their shipments and new orders will rise, a proportion almost equal to the high recorded in the early fall of 1987, while about 14 percent expect orders to decline. One-third expect the lower dollar to boost their sales this year. Thirty-nine percent plan to increase their capital expenditures in the next six months, the highest percentage reporting such expansion plans since last August. Coal production in the District during the first three weeks of February was slightly above production during the same period last year. Although the United Mine Workers contract expired on January 31, there were no reported work stoppages. Most union-affiliated coal companies in the District are operating under new contracts, although a few are still negotiating. Housing Half of the District realtors and builders surveyed by telephone reported that home sales in February were unchanged from a year ago. The remaining half was about evenly split between those reporting increases and those reporting declines. Most of the activity in the market was in homes priced above $150,000. In the Washington, D.C., area, however, condominiums priced near $100,000 were selling well. In Baltimore, sales of new homes in the $80,000 to $100,000 range have been depressed in recent months, although lower and higher priced houses have been selling well. Agriculture Our contacts in the agriculture sector report that farmland prices appear to be strengthening throughout the District, and that farmers are generally optimistic about their income prospects. Tobacco exports are expected to continue strong. Peach growers expect a good crop as the winter weather has been cold enough to keep buds from swelling and opening prematurely. However, poultry processors and pork producers are in the down phase of their cycle, with lower prices expected to persist. Subsoil moisture conditions are reported to be good in Maryland and Virginia, but conditions have been dry in parts of the Carolinas, prompting alerts of forest fire dangers. Financial Our telephone survey of District financial institutions indicated slightly higher demand for commercial, consumer, and home mortgage loans in February. Two-thirds of the respondents said they anticipate increased demand for both consumer loans and loans secured by real estate over the next six months. Bankers also reported that prospects are good for commercial and industrial loans in the months ahead. Respondents attribute their optimism to lower interest rates and to their belief that rates will not rise.