Without exception, reports confirm a moderate expansion of the nation's economy. Strength in the manufacturing sector and continued moderate growth in employment are sustaining the current expansion. Consumer spending, which had provided much of the earlier stimulus to the economy, has continued to expand sluggishly. Auto sales, however, improved and have risen strongly in some districts. Construction activity remains mixed, while bank loan demand is generally flat. Consumer lending has declined sharply in keeping with the slower growth of consumer spending. The farm sector outlook remains positive. Manufacturing Most districts report a general expansion of manufacturing activity. The declining foreign exchange value of the dollar is credited with spurring manufacturing growth in many districts. Orders for steel or fabricated metals produced in the Boston, Chicago, St. Louis and Dallas districts are increasing rapidly. Many producers are using all available capacity causing higher prices in some areas. Paper production is growing rapidly according to Boston, Atlanta and San Francisco. Several districts also mention growth in electronic equipment orders. Atlanta, Dallas and St. Louis report strong gains in textile and apparel orders, with labor shortages reported by Atlanta. Tight labor markets are also mentioned by Boston and St. Louis. Despite manufacturing's general strength, Chicago and St. Louis note auto production declines. Dallas and San Francisco also report weakness in defense and construction-related manufacturing. Boston and Dallas find manufacturers' inventories generally at satisfactory levels, but Kansas City reports higher-than-desired inventories of material inputs. Of the six districts that mention manufacturers' input prices, most report price increases. Boston, Philadelphia and Richmond report generally stable prices for manufacturers' products. Prices of some products, such as paper and steel, however, are up sharply. Employment Most Districts indicate generally favorable employment growth. Declining unemployment rates are mentioned by New York, Cleveland and Minneapolis. Areas of weakness include layoffs in New York's financial sector and in the auto industry of the Chicago and St. Louis districts. Consumer Spending Retail sales for January and February are flat or weak in all districts. Despite the weakness, retail inventories are near or slightly below desired levels in all districts except Minneapolis. New York and San Francisco point out that many retailers are reserving their judgment on the outlook for the year pending the results of Easter sales. Boston and San Francisco report that prices of imported consumer goods have risen. Kansas City found only modest general price increases. Strong auto sales are reported by Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis and Minneapolis. Other districts indicate that auto sales are on target or slightly ahead of last year. A number of districts find that domestic autos are selling better than imports because of import price increases and domestic manufacturers' incentive programs. Construction The performance of the construction sector is mixed. Boston, Chicago, Kansas City and Philadelphia report an improved construction environment, whereas St. Louis, Dallas and San Francisco report a weakening in overall construction activity. Residential construction, while expanding in the Atlanta, Boston, Philadelphia and St. Louis districts, is declining in most other districts. Boston and Philadelphia report strong new home sales. Commercial construction continues to show mixed results. Construction activity in the Chicago district is likely to remain at a high level in 1988. The Minneapolis district reports that January nonresidential building contracts were three times higher than in January 1987. In Dallas, construction continues to decline and remains the weakest sector of the economy. Banking Loan demand at the nation's largest commercial banks remained generally flat. Most districts report that reductions in lending rates during February have not triggered a significant increase in loan applications. Richmond was the only district reporting an increase loan demand across all major loan categories. Two-thirds of the bankers surveyed by Richmond anticipate increased demand over the next six months for both consumer and real estate loans. Cleveland, Kansas City, Philadelphia and St. Louis report a slowing in consumer lending. Cleveland, Richmond, Philadelphia and Atlanta report strength in real estate and commercial lending. Atlanta cites rising exports as the primary reason for the increased commercial loan volume. New York reports that demand for commercial mortgages for office construction is particularly weak, and some bankers believe the suburban office space surrounding New York City is overbuilt. Dallas reports further declines in deposit and loan growth due to widespread concern about the stability of District financial institutions. Agriculture and Natural Resources Of the districts mentioning agriculture, all describe strength in the farm sector. Richmond and San Francisco report stronger farmland values, while Chicago and Kansas City report increased farm equipment sales. St. Louis and San Francisco find that farm loan demand has fallen, while Kansas City indicates flat loan demand. Three districts indicate increased oil drilling activity. The lumber and forest product industry and the West's mining industry are strong.