Overview The economy of the Tenth District shows a mixed performance, but slight improvement overall. Retailers report flat to slightly increasing sales compared with a year earlier, and auto sales show some recent improvement. Farm incomes are up considerably. Home mortgage demand and housing activity are relatively weak, however, and improvement in the district's energy industry has been slowed by weaker oil prices. Loan demand and deposits at commercial banks are off slightly. Retail Sales Tenth District retailers generally report flat to slightly improving sales when compared with a year ago, but slightly worsening sales over the past three months. Only modest general price increases are reported. While most respondents are satisfied with present inventory levels, nearly all report continuing tight inventory management. Sales are estimated to be flat to moderately increasing in the months ahead. Automobile Sales Automobile dealers generally report some recent improvement in sales. Although most dealers report steady inventories, some dealers are concerned that stocks are too large relative to sales. Overall, dealers are not very optimistic about 1988 sales. Manufacturing Manufacturers' input prices are reported to have risen moderately in the past year, with the exception of substantial increases for steel, plastic, and aluminum. Future increases are expected to be slight, except for a moderate further increase in aluminum prices. Respondents report that current inventories of materials inputs are too high, and they plan further trimming. Capacity utilization varies by respondent, ranging from 70 percent for a paint manufacturer to virtually full capacity for a manufacturer of small electric home appliances. Only a few respondents report any problems with availability or lead times for inputs. Firms selling abroad expect further improvement in 1988. Energy Weakening crude oil prices have begun to erode some of the stability established in the district's energy industry last year. The average weekly number of operating drilling rigs in the Tenth District decreased from 363 in December to 307 in January. In February the rig count fell further to 271, still about 21 percent above the February 1987 average. Soft prices and continuing uncertainty about OPEC's resolve to rein in production could postpone further improvement in the district's energy sector. Housing Activity and Finance Activity in the housing sector shows slight improvement across the district. Homebuilders report that housing starts are up compared with last month but down substantially from a year earlier. Single- family construction has improved while multi-family construction continues to be weak. Most respondents express optimism for single- family construction in the spring. Delivery times and availability of construction materials remain about normal. Most responding savings institutions report that savings deposit inflows are up compared with a year ago, with some tapering off since the beginning of this year. Overall, little or no change in inflows is expected in the near future. Mortgage demand has been weak in most areas, but most respondents expect a pick-up in the spring. Mortgage rates are stable to declining, but several respondents expect some increase in the second half of the year. Banking District commercial bankers report slightly lower total loan demand last month. Demand for commercial and industrial loans, consumer loans, and commercial real estate loans was down slightly. Demand for agricultural loans was unchanged and demand for residential real estate loans was up slightly. The prime rate fell 25 basis points on average, and consumer lending rates also fell slightly. No further change is expected in the next month in either the prime rate or consumer loan rates. Total deposits fell slightly because of decreases in demand deposits, conventional NOWs and large CDs. These decreases were partially offset by slight increases in MMDAs, IRAs, and small time deposits. Super NOWs and passbook savings accounts were unchanged on average. Agriculture Tenth District farm incomes were higher in 1987 as earnings were up substantially for livestock producers, and crop farmers generally had an exceptional year as well, While gross farm incomes were up considerably, improvement in after tax incomes may be less dramatic. Government farm programs will be popular again in 1988. Higher crop prices are not discouraging program sign up, and a majority of farmers in the district are opting for the basic 20 percent required set aside. There is less enthusiasm for the additional 10 percent voluntary set aside, and very little interest in the 0/92 program, a program which pays 92 percent of eligible deficiency payments in exchange for idling all acres. The Conservation Reserve Program (CRP), however, has been quite attractive. Bankers report that in many areas most of the eligible acreage has already entered the program, and sign up is tapering off. In other areas, the relatively complicated requirements for program compliance have made the CRP less popular. Agricultural loan demand appears flat for 1988, with both lenders and borrowers maintaining a conservative approach to agricultural credit decisions. A few bankers anticipate a limited increase in loan demand for livestock expansion. Some renewed activity in the farm implements market may also provide a limited source of increased loan demand.