Economic activity in the Second District has continued mixed. Retail sales were relatively strong in January, but a decided slowing occurred during February. While overall business conditions were generally satisfactory, demand for new homes and office space varied among areas. Business borrowing at small and medium-sized banks was somewhat spotty. Consumer Spending The pattern of retail sales in the District has been mixed since the last report. Respondents stated that consumer spending was relatively strong in January, due in part to continued heavy promotionals. During the first half of February, however, sales activity showed a decided slowing, which they viewed with some concern. Nonetheless, District retailers were hopeful that, given the early occurrence of Easter this year, activity would soon improve. Over-the-year gains during January ranged from 9 percent to 15 percent and were reported to be on or above plan. Demand was strong for a number of categories including adult and children's apparel, accessories and home furnishings. Buying by foreign consumers continued somewhat heavier than usual according to New York City retailers. As a result of the strong sales activity, inventories were generally pared in January. Respondents described their inventory situation as ranging from on plan to 3 percent above. Some unwanted accumulation occurred over the first half of February, however, when consumer demand weakened. Residential Construction and Real Estate Conditions in the District's market for new homes are varied. In some areas of speculative building and high prices, developers are offering a variety of incentives in order to try to sell new houses and condominiums. In many other areas, however, overall demand remains strong, and the need for affordable housing in unabated. Several large-scale residential projects have recently begun or will soon be undertaken. In downtown White Plains the foundation was poured for a 316-unit apartment building, the largest in Westchester County, which will provide medium-priced housing for some of the workers in the many new office buildings there. Elsewhere, a residential community is developing in what has been an industrial area of Queens, a desirable site located on the water and facing the Manhattan skyline. One apartment building has already been constructed, another is underway, and a third will probably be started there this spring. The pace of commercial leasing activity has also varied during recent weeks. Demand for office space is strong on much of Long Island, due in part to last year's moratoriums on construction in some areas. Moreover, despite the fact that their vacancy rates remain well above 20 percent, Fairfield County and northern New Jersey have seen some improvement in leasing activity. In Westchester County, however, net absorption of office space has been minimal due to lackluster demand and corporate relocations and downsizing. Leasing has also slowed in New York City where a substantial amount of office space was recently added as the result of a merger of two financial services firms. Midtown and downtown Manhattan vacancy rates have risen and are expected to move higher in the months ahead. Six years ago the City offered zoning incentives to stimulate the commercial development of Midtown west. Since developers wanted to meet the May 1988 deadline for laying foundations, an additional 12 million square feet of office space is now under construction in midtown. Business Activity Economic conditions in the Second District have generally been satisfactory with the major exception being the widespread layoffs which are taking place in the financial services sector. Despite these layoffs however, February unemployment rates in New York and New Jersey fell further to 3.9 percent and 3.4 percent, respectively, the lowest in 18 years. The New York City rate also remains some two and a half percentage points below its year-earlier level. While further cutbacks by the City's financial services firms are in the offing, several other areas report that their economy continues to expand. In Rochester, for example, where 84 percent of surveyed purchasing managers found current business conditions to be the same or improved in January, 60 percent anticipated further gains over the next three months. Financial Developments Demand for commercial loans in the Second District has been somewhat spotty in recent months based on a survey of senior officers of small and medium-sized banks. Though most stated that the level of borrowing activity was about average, some reported strong demand while others noted sluggishness. Reductions in lending rates at these banks during early February have not triggered a significant increase in loan applications. Several bankers commented that businesses tend to be less sensitive to interest rate changes than individuals. Among the different sectors, demand for commercial mortgages for office construction is particularly weak. Some of the bankers believe that suburban office space surrounding New York City is overbuilt, a troublesome situation given the weakness of the securities industry. One bank reported a dramatic drop in demand for import loans, particularly those for Taiwanese products. Most respondents anticipate that 1988 will eventually prove to be a year of healthy growth for their banks. Though they were generally less optimistic about the U.S. economy at large, most were confident that a recession would be avoided and the second half of 1988 would show stronger growth.