Summary The economy in the West continues to grow at a healthy pace. Respondents continue to expect relatively slow growth during the next year. Wage and price increases remain modest. Consumer spending growth has stabilized at a healthy rate, with inventories reported to be in line with desired levels. Most reports of manufacturing activity indicate strength, with several manufacturers planning expansions. Agriculture and resource-related industries continue to perform well. Construction and real estate activity continue strong throughout the District, with Arizona the major exception. Western banks continue to report healthy conditions. Most businesses in the San Francisco area have resumed operations since the earthquake, but road closures and property damage are delaying a complete return to business as usual. Business Sentiment Expectations regarding GNP growth are holding steady, with 73 percent of respondents continuing to anticipate somewhat slower growth during the next twelve months. Expectations regarding most components of GNP are essentially unchanged, although expectations about business investment improved and expectations regarding housing starts and the trade balance deteriorated somewhat. Wages and Prices Little change is reported in wage and price conditions, For the most part, upward pressures on wages and prices remain modest. A West Coast retailer notes that his prices seem to be moderating after a surge early this year. Labor shortages in many parts of the District are putting upward pressure on entry-level wages. Respondents in some states report that recent increases in the minimum wage have had little effect on labor costs, since employers must pay even more than the new, higher minimum wage to attract entry-level workers. Consumer Spending Consumer spending continues to grow modestly. Retailers report that inventories are close to desired levels. While many Bay Area retailers survived the earthquake with relatively little damage, a few experienced inventory or structural losses that are hurting profits for their stores. Some auto dealers report inventory shortfalls due to the recent sales strength combined with delays in receiving 1990 models. Manufacturing Many manufacturers in the West continue to report solid manufacturing activity. Capacity constraints in commercial aircraft manufacturing still exist, but no longer are getting worse. Capacity at Boeing was underutilized through most of October because mechanics are on strike. Investment spending in commercial aerospace is expected to be lower during the next year than it was during the past year. A paint and coatings manufacturer reports that demand for his company's products has been higher in 1989 than it has been since 1979. This company does not plan to increase investment spending in 1990, but it has purchased property that would facilitate expansion should it be called for in the future. A newspaper publisher reports plans to expand press facilities, in order to increase both capacity and efficiency. These plans include an increase in investment spending for 1990 over its 1989 level. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Agriculture and resource-related industries continue to perform well. Prices for agricultural products are reported to be strong, and agricultural producers continue to seek expansion of their export markets. A food processor reports that inventories have increased significantly during the past year. He notes that this increase could cause a drop in prices unless export sales rise significantly. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate activity continue strong throughout the District, with Arizona the major exception. One respondent reports that strong demand for commercial properties from investors in Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Singapore is exerting upward pressure on the prices of commercial properties. Prior to the earthquake several respondents in California noted that appreciation of residential properties seemed to have slowed considerably. It is not clear whether the earthquake will significantly affect property values outside the hardest-hit areas. Although many roads and buildings remain fundamentally sound, work crews are busy demolishing unsafe buildings and repairing those structures that can be fixed. Repair and rebuilding activity is expected to continue for at least two years. Financial Sector Western banks continue to report healthy conditions. Several banks report robust growth in construction loan activity during recent weeks. Competition for deposits and for quality loans continues to be stiff.