The pace of economic growth is reported as slow to moderate in most Federal Reserve districts. Consumer spending is mixed, with a number of districts describing retail sales as steady to growing slowly. Manufacturing activity is also mixed, with some districts reporting weakness in orders and shipments. Weakness of construction in some markets contrasts with evidence of some improvement elsewhere. Resource industries, including the energy sector, appear to be improving, as is agriculture generally. Loan demand at commercial banks continues to vary by region and type of loan. Consumer Spending District reports show that retail sales have been mixed across the country. Overall retail sales are described as steady to growing slowly in several districts (Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco). Dallas reports a recent acceleration in retail sales increases, Cleveland notes better-than-expected sales recently, and Minneapolis says general merchandise spending is strong. Boston and New York report mixed retail sales results. Where specific lines of goods are mentioned, sales of apparel, basic housewares, and other nondurables are described as relatively strong. Sales are weaker for discretionary, big-ticket items such as furniture, home appliances, and consumer electronics; auto sales have also been weakening recently. Retail sales expectations for the upcoming holiday season are modest in the Boston district, average in the Kansas City district, generally positive in the Philadelphia district, and optimistic in the Cleveland and Dallas districts. Most businesses in the San Francisco area have resumed operations since the earthquake, but road closures and property damage are delaying a complete return to business as usual. Manufacturing Manufacturing performance is mixed, both among districts and across industries. Philadelphia reports further declines in manufacturing activity, especially for durable goods, as orders and backlogs fall. Chicago reports slower growth, and some declines in orders and sales, for most manufacturers. Producers of both high-tech and traditional capital goods in the Cleveland district report slower growth or outright declines in orders and production in recent months. Boston reports sales and orders up modestly for most manufacturers, and Dallas notes a slight expansion overall in its manufacturing sector. San Francisco reports solid manufacturing activity in the West. Richmond and St. Louis report varied business conditions for their district manufacturers. Prices of materials inputs are reported as mostly stable by four districts, while Richmond reports a slower rise in input prices. Significant variations in manufacturing performance also exist across industries. Minneapolis says "troubles have continued to mount in the computer and electronics industries," citing recent employment reductions by Minnesota computer manufacturers. But Cleveland notes that orders for office equipment may be leveling out, following a decline. And Chicago says the slowdown in communications equipment demand appears to have bottomed out. Producers of construction machinery and heavy duty trucks in the Cleveland district report further slowdowns in orders and sales. Chicago reports steel shipments are down as "industrial procurement of steel has peaked," but that order backlogs will continue to support steel production. Auto industry contacts are optimistic about maintaining current assembly schedules, and shipments of large farm tractors and combines are well above those of a year ago. St. Louis reports declines in manufacturing employment in several sectors, with recent layoffs by makers of autos and home appliances. San Francisco reports capacity constraints in commercial aircraft manufacturing still exist but are no longer worsening. Construction and Real Estate Signs of weakness in housing markets in some districts contrast with some evidence of improvement elsewhere. Residential construction is showing signs of weakness in the St. Louis district, with considerable weakening in Louisville and St. Louis. Kansas City reports soft housing activity with starts down and sales stable to down slightly. Atlanta says residential construction continues to be slow across the Southeast. Dallas reports little change lately in residential building. Chicago is receiving mixed reports on residential sales, while Richmond reports stronger demand for mortgage loans in most parts of its district. Home sales have picked up somewhat in the Boston district, due partly to lower prices and creative financing. New York reports strong demand for new housing in Buffalo and Syracuse, but an abundance of resale homes weakens the market in the New York metropolitan area. Nonresidential construction activity also varies among districts. Signs of weakness in nonresidential building are present in the St. Louis district. Office construction continues to be slow in the Atlanta district, but some manufacturing plant expansions are underway. Construction is holding up well in much of the Chicago district, as evidenced by strength in shipments of construction materials. Commercial building in downtown Chicago remains at a high level. Dallas reports a mild improvement in nonresidential building. Office vacancy rates, though still high, are falling in most cities in the Dallas district, and industrial vacancy rates are also falling. Office leasing activity has picked up recently in the New York district, especially in midtown Manhattan. Construction and real estate activity have been strong in the San Francisco district, except in Arizona. Resource Industries and Tourism Conditions appear to be improving in some resource industries, including the energy sector. Minneapolis reports a good year for mining, especially copper mining, and continued expansion for the lumber industry. Both Dallas and Kansas City report further gradual expansion in oil and gas drilling activity. Exploration and development activity are significantly above the year-ago 1evel in the Kansas City district. Dallas reports a slow steady increase in its drilling rig count. All of the increase has been in Texas, with declines elsewhere in the district. A turnaround is expected in Louisiana and New Mexico along with further growth in Texas. Minneapolis reports moderately strong tourist activity. Yellowstone National Park received a large number of visitors this summer, but their spending was lower than expected. Tourist activity in the Richmond district is up from a year ago in spite of Charleston's lost business due to Hurricane Hugo. With about 85 percent of the city's hotels reopened, however, bookings for the fall are about the same as a year ago. Agriculture Conditions in the farm sector generally continue to improve. The fall harvest brought better than expected crop yields to the Chicago district, especially in Iowa. While cool, wet weather delayed the harvest of cotton and soybeans in the St. Louis district, other fall crops were harvested on schedule. Fall crop yields were average to above average in the Kansas City district, where good prices for wheat and feeder cattle are maintaining farm incomes. Minneapolis reports generally good agricultural conditions and notes that the Montana range recovered well from last year's drought. Soil, moisture conditions have improved for much of the Dallas district, but parts of southern and central Texas still have serious drought problems. In the Richmond district, yields were excellent for most fall crops, farm income prospects are bright, and land prices are steady to rising in most areas. Hurricane Hugo severely affected the agricultural sectors of North and South Carolina, bringing extensive damage to crops and structures as well as considerable destruction of livestock and poultry. Total damage to the farm sector in both states has been estimated at nearly $1.2 billion. Banking Loan demand at commercial banks continues to vary by region and type of loan. Demand for business and real estate loans has been slow to moderate at small and medium-sized banks in the New York district. Philadelphia reports strong growth in most types of lending at major banks, but growth in consumer loans and real estate loans is expected to slow soon. Slow-growing or steady loan demand is noted by Cleveland, Richmond, and Kansas City. Atlanta reports slightly higher, but still low, demand for most consumer and business loans; real estate and auto loans are weak. In the St. Louis district, total lending by large banks is growing. San Francisco reports strong growth in construction loan activity during recent weeks.