Summary Indicators of economic activity in the District remain more subdued than last year. Growth of employment in District states since late 1988 has trailed the nation. Manufacturing employment declined from early 1989 levels, but rose in August. Reports from contacts with manufacturers generally show slower gains in business volume or declines, in some cases from high levels. Farm equipment sales, in contrast, are registering large gains. Many large industrial investment projects reportedly remain on the agenda. But slower growth in various industries raises concern that increases may continue to taper off, leading to downturns in these industries and at suppliers. Construction activity continues relatively strong in the region. General merchandise sales are rising, albeit slowly, and credit delinquencies do not signal deterioration, overall, in ability to pay. The District's fall harvest, aided by ideal weather conditions, is generating "better than expected" crop yields. Manufacturing The trend for most manufacturers contacted was toward slower growth in orders and sales, with some noting declines. A producer of electrical controls and power supplies sold to machinery markets has seen a small further rise in orders this year following strong increases last year. Orders for electrical equipment from metals producers have been slightly lower following very large orders last year. Electrical equipment prices were little changed. A manufacturer of capital goods noted slower orders for some types, including defense equipment, petroleum equipment, food packaging machinery, and material handling equipment. A diversified producer of consumer products and of supplies widely used in industry reported a further tapering off of growth in its sales. A slowdown in communications equipment demand appears to have bottomed. Shipments of corrugated containers are estimated to have continued to expand slowly through September; investments, mostly incremental enhancements of existing facilities, are bringing capacity on-line more rapidly than growth of sales, exerting downward pressures on prices. Sales of large farm tractors and combines continue well above year-ago levels. Shipments of steel were expected to be below a year earlier in the second half, after being higher in the first half of 1989. Industrial procurement of steel has peaked, as a large number of large projects moved off of drawing boards to the procurement stage in 1988 and early 1989. There are now fewer big projects being started, but numerous smaller ones. This has resulted in a peaking and subsequent easing of pressures on available capacity, but many projects remain underway, and this backlog will tend to support activity in the months ahead. The outlook for steel also reflects an expectation that automakers will produce close to announced schedules for the rest of this year. Contacts in the auto industry were optimistic about maintaining reduced assembly schedules. These production cuts are being reflected at parts plants in the District. Construction and Real Estate Construction activity is holding up well in much of the District. Shipments of Portland cement to the Midwest have been relatively strong, with metropolitan areas where building picked up earlier, such as Chicago, remaining at high levels but not growing as before, while less heavily populated areas have been catching up. Michigan, however, is slowing. Shipments of gypsum board to District states have registered larger gains from a year ago than nationwide. Strength in gypsum board shipments reflects not only finishing work on new construction projects but also the continued high level of renovation activity. Construction activity on downtown Chicago commercial buildings is still at a high level and is expected to remain vigorous, based on building plans and demolition activity. Building of light industrial structures continues at a good pace in Chicago suburbs. Highway work has been strong in the metro area this year. Reports on residential sales are mixed. Some realtors indicate relatively good volumes of business following declines in mortgage interest rates from peaks last spring, but others view sales as sluggish. There are indications of weakening in housing prices. Some realtors regard property sales as soft partly because sellers have exaggerated views of what their properties are worth. Affordability is a problem for many would-be buyers. On the other hand, houses that are selling include numerous larger and more expensive properties. Consumer Spending General merchandise retail sales in early October, on a comparable- selling-days basis, were having modest gains from a year earlier, according to a contact with a large chain. Some durable goods were selling well, including washers and dryers, refrigerators, home electronics, and computers. Sales of other product lines, including home improvements and some fashions were weak. Children's apparel was selling well. Credit sales continued strong, with no deterioration in delinquencies. Agriculture Ideal weather conditions the past three weeks have helped to dry crops and speed up both the fall harvest and the planting of winter wheat. The corn and soybean harvest, as of October 15, ranged from two-thirds complete in Illinois and Iowa to one-third complete in Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin. Despite frost damage in some areas, numerous reports note "better-than-expected" yields, especially in Iowa.