The District economy continues to grow slowly. Despite record low unemployment levels in several District states, manufacturing employment has fallen in several sectors, and both residential and nonresidential construction are showing signs of weakness. Exports of manufactured goods, however, have been strong in recent months. Cool, wet weather has slowed the harvest of some District crops. Total lending by large commercial banks, especially for real estate, increased in the third quarter. Employment Unemployment rates in Arkansas, Kentucky and Missouri dropped to their lowest levels of the decade. While the drop in Missouri was the result of its labor force falling more rapidly than total employment, the declines in Arkansas and Kentucky reflected moderate employment growth. Largely because of the recall of 4,000 auto workers, the St Louis unemployment rate also hit a 10-year low of 5 percent. Contacts report, however, that the Louisville economy has been weakening for several months. Manufacturing District manufacturers report varied business conditions, with most expecting flat to slow growth through year-end 1989. None of the District apparel manufacturers contacted reported unusually large increases in Christmas-related production. In fact, many apparel manufacturers are experiencing declines in orders, but most expect business to increase in early 1990. A fleecewear manufacturer plans to open a plant in Arkansas that will hire 600 workers immediately and 1,400 more in the future. In the durables sector, most manufacturers report satisfactory inventory levels. Many are experiencing declining backlogs and slowdowns in new orders. Most manufacturers have no plans to hire new workers or make additions to physical capacity over the next three months. Several industries have laid off workers in recent months to reduce inventories, and more layoffs are scheduled through year-end. One auto assembly plant in St. Louis will lay off approximately 3,000 workers for four weeks beginning October 20 to reduce inventories of slow-selling models. Several analysts expect total District employment in the automobile sector to hold steady or decline through the rest of 1989 as higher prices for 1990 model cars depress sales. District home appliance manufacturers report declining sales and layoffs, citing higher 1989 interest rates, lagging home sales and economic uncertainty as the reasons consumers are postponing major purchases. Most manufacturers who export indicated that exports were up over last year and that sales have not been affected by recent exchange rate changes. Construction Considerable weakening in single-family homebuilding was noted by contacts in August and September in the Louisville and St. Louis markets. with further weakening expected through the end of the year and into 1990. Industry contacts report that some home builders in St. Louis are cutting sales prices by as much as 15 percent. The construction of multi-family dwellings in St. Louis and Louisville also continues to be weak. Using comparable periods, 1989 construction has been less than half of 1988 construction. Consequently, vacancy rates are declining and fewer incentives for renters are available. No further decline is expected in multi- family building in the St. Louis area next year. Despite a recent surge, the growth of District nonresidential building contracts was weaker than at the national level compared with last year. Agriculture and Natural Resources The harvest of the District's corn, tobacco and sorghum crops is keeping pace with the average rate of harvest over the past five years, but cotton and soybean harvesting are behind normal over most of the District. Cool, wet weather has slowed soybean maturity in most District states and caused harvest delays in some of the District's southern states. Industry contacts expect that low water levels on the Mississippi River will cause only a slight slowdown in grain movement this fall. District coal production is down slightly compared with a year ago, while U.S. coal production continues to run slightly ahead of last year's pace. Banking Total loans at the 12 largest District banks increased more rapidly in the third quarter than for the same period one year ago. Spurred by exceptionally strong real estate growth in August and September, real estate loans passed commercial loans as the largest component of total loans at these banks. For the third quarter, real estate lending grew at almost twice the rate registered during the same period last year, while commercial lending declined over the period. Finally, consumer lending increased during the three months ending in September, showing continued recovery from the declines of one year ago.