Economic activity in the Eighth District has continued to expand at a modest   pace since the previous survey. Manufacturing activity has continued to   increase, and activity in the services sector has also increased. Residential   real estate activity has continued to decline, while commercial real estate   market conditions have been mixed. Overall lending at a sample of large District   banks saw little change during the fourth quarter of 2011.
Car dealers in the District reported that sales in January and early February   were up slightly, on average, compared with last year's sales. About 48 percent   of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in sales, while 32 percent saw   decreases and 20 percent saw no changes. Twenty-eight percent of the car dealers   reported that used car sales had increased relative to new car sales, while 24   percent reported the opposite. Thirty-two percent of contacts reported an   increase in sales of low-end vehicles relative to high-end vehicles, while 8   percent reported the opposite. Thirty-two percent of the car dealers surveyed   reported that their inventories were too low, while 24 percent reported that   their inventories were too high. The sales outlook for March and April was   mostly optimistic: 76 percent of the car dealers expect sales to increase over   2011 levels, while just 4 percent expect sales to decrease and 20 percent expect   sales to be similar to last year's sales.
Activity in the District's services sector has continued to increase since   our previous report. Firms in information technology services, pest control   services, distribution services, health services, and leisure services announced   plans to expand operations and hire new workers. In contrast, contacts in   freight transportation services, education services, government services, and   business support services announced plans to decrease operations and lay off   workers.
Commercial and industrial real estate conditions were mixed throughout the   Eighth District. Contacts in Memphis reported weak commercial real estate loan   demand but stable industrial real estate activity. Contacts in Louisville   reported that commercial real estate activity has increased since December 2011   while contacts in St. Louis noted an increase in fourth-quarter 2011 office and   industrial vacancy rates compared with the third quarter of 2011. Commercial and   industrial construction also varied throughout the District. Contacts in south   central Kentucky noted that commercial construction is showing improved activity   with recent business additions and relocations in the region. Contacts in   western Kentucky, however, noted that construction projects are very scarce,   with the exception of Owensboro-Daviess County, which has a significant number   of public and private projects underway. Contacts in northwest Arkansas noted an   increase in commercial building construction in the Bentonville area, while   contacts in Little Rock continued to report overall weak construction   activity.
