The economy in the Fourth District grew at a moderate pace during the past   six weeks. Manufacturers reported that business conditions have improved.   Activity in residential and nonresidential construction picked up slightly.   Comments by retailers about January sales were mixed, while auto sales dipped   along seasonal trends. Activity in shale gas drilling and production expanded.   Freight transport volume trended higher. And the demand for business and   consumer credit improved slightly.
Our contacts indicated that hiring by manufacturers and energy producers has   increased, though the recruitment of high-skilled workers remains difficult.   Reports from staffing-firm representatives tended toward the negative. Two of   our contacts noted a slight decline in the number of permanent job openings,   while others observed a small drop in the number of placements. Wage pressures   were largely contained. Price increases were mainly limited to metals and to   materials and equipment used by energy producers and freight carriers.
Capacity utilization remains below normal for the majority of our contacts,   with little change expected in the near term. A few manufacturers said that they   have been building inventories to meet approaching seasonal demand; otherwise,   inventories were balanced with orders. Nearly half of our contacts reported that   their capital budgets for 2012 will be higher than in 2011. A slight rise in raw   material prices was noted--especially for metals, with increases being passed   through to customers. New hiring by manufacturers has become more widespread,   though the average number of hires per company is fairly low. Those adding to   payrolls found it difficult to recruit professional and high-skilled production   workers. Wage pressures are contained.
Activity in nonresidential construction for small to medium-size contractors   has improved during the past few weeks. Inquiries have shown a modest increase,   and backlogs are starting to grow. Construction contracts were primarily with   industrial and retail customers. One contact described pockets of significant   activity in large commercial construction projects across the District, noting   particular strength in northeast Ohio. The outlook by small to medium-size   builders has brightened since our last report. One contractor observed that   while business is slowly returning to pre-2008 levels, profit margins are still   very tight compared with this point in past recoveries. Other than rising prices   for steel and drywall, the cost of building materials was steady. We heard two   reports about project financing being easier to obtain. Payrolls were little   changed, but they are expected to rise slightly in the near future.
Auto dealers reported a slowdown in new-vehicle sales during January that   followed normal seasonal trends. On a year-over-year basis, sales were somewhat   higher. A few dealers noted that their inventories are now on the high side but   are manageable; others said that inventories are light. The outlook for 2012 was   generally optimistic. However, several of our contacts were uncertain about   whether or not the sales increases seen during 2011 would be repeated this year.   Purchases of used vehicles showed a modest improvement, but inventories were low   and prices elevated. On the financing side, interest rates remain competitive,   and at the same time it is difficult to arrange financing for customers with low   credit scores. Auto dealers looking to hire reported that it is not easy to find   qualified candidates, especially sales representatives and service   technicians.
