Sixth District business contacts described economic activity as expanding at   a somewhat stronger pace in January and early February compared with late last   year. Expectations were generally more positive, although firms continued to   express caution with regard to the outlook.
Retailers noted that sales and traffic increased compared with a year ago and   auto sales remained robust. Hospitality contacts, with the exception of cruise   lines, reported strong bookings for this year. Homebuilders and brokers reported   that unseasonably warm weather has helped bolster residential real estate   activity by pulling some activity forward. Nonetheless, overall home sales and   construction levels remained weak apart from the generally robust multifamily   sector. Manufacturers and transportation contacts continued to note positive   activity on balance. Bankers reported a modest improvement in loan activity at   larger institutions. More firms reported increased hiring, although contacts   continued to signal they approached hiring decisions very cautiously. Concerns   over increased input costs generally eased as most firms reported that input   prices leveled off. Only a few contacts reported having significant pricing   power.
Hospitality contacts reported that tourism activity remained strong and most   were optimistic regarding the outlook for leisure and hospitality spending in   2012. Attendance for major conventions increased and bookings and lead volume   rose, according to business travel contacts. However, there were concerns about   higher fuel costs and the adverse impact it may have on drive-to traffic at   regional tourist destinations. Cruise line bookings have suffered in the wake of   the maritime disaster in Italy.
Most District homebuilders indicated that new home sales and construction   activity growth, measured year-over-year, increased slightly during January and   early February; however, several contacts noted that unseasonably warm weather   in the region likely pulled some activity forward. Builders continued to report   downward pressure on home prices while new home inventories remained below   year-earlier levels. Contacts noted that multifamily construction remained   robust. Over the next several months, homebuilders anticipate new home sales and   construction to be flat to slightly up compared with a year earlier.
Most commercial real estate contacts indicated that conditions continued to   improve slowly in the region. Contractors noted a slight improvement in demand   but the market remained very competitive and activity remained at low levels.   Brokers continued to report modest improvements in demand for space in several   parts of the District with some noting that rent concessions had abated. The   outlook among contacts was similar to our last report with most contractors and   commercial real estate brokers anticipating that construction activity will   improve slowly during 2012.
Transportation contacts reported that inventory-building trends appeared to   be similar to the end of last year. A freight forwarding company noted that   orders were stable and a large railroad firm continued to report strong   increases in auto shipments. Coal inventory levels declined at the end of last   year, but in recent months have exceeded targeted levels as mild weather and low   natural gas prices dampened demand for coal-fired electricity generation.   Contacts noted that both imports and exports have leveled off since the   beginning of the fourth quarter of 2011, although trade with Latin America   continued to experience modest growth.
Concerns over increased input costs eased further, although several   manufacturing firms did note an increase in commodity prices since the last   report. Few contacts reported having significant pricing power. According to the   firms surveyed in the Atlanta Fed's January Business Inflation Expectations   (BIE) survey, unit costs were expected to rise 1.8 percent for the year ahead,   down slightly from December expectations. Firms continue to operate in an   environment of below normal sales and depressed margins, according to the   survey, though both have been slowly improving since October of last year.
Significant rains have eased drought conditions in parts of Alabama,   Mississippi, and Louisiana, while parts of Georgia and Florida have seen drought   conditions worsen. Mild temperatures throughout the region are of concern to   peach and other fruit crop growers hoping for adequate conditions for the   current growing season. On a year-over-year basis, prices received by farmers   were higher for many of the region's agricultural products. Contacts reported   that some farmers in Alabama and Georgia were reviewing their planting plans in   light of their concerns of labor shortages.
