The Eleventh District economy continued to grow at a moderate pace, and   outlooks were more positive than in the last report. Manufacturers reported   increased activity. Demand for business services was solid, and activity in   transportation services rose modestly. Housing and commercial real estate   markets continued to improve. Overall building activity remained subdued, with   the major exception being robust multifamily construction activity. Contacts   said retail sales growth was tepid and automobile sales held steady. Financial   services respondents said overall loan demand edged up. Energy activity was   strong, and agricultural conditions improved. Employment levels were flat to up   slightly. Price and wage pressures were modest.
The price of WTI was near $100 per barrel during the reporting period.   Natural gas prices fell from $3 per thousand cubic feet in early January to near   $2.50 in mid-February. Gasoline prices rose by about 22 cents per gallon over   the past six weeks, and the price of diesel rose by 7 cents. Prices of   petrochemicals and plastics increased since the last report.
High-tech manufacturers said orders edged up moderately since the last   report. Demand for semiconductors and other electronic products improved,   largely due to a pickup in demand for automobiles, mobile devices and cloud   computing. In addition, one respondent noted that retailers of electronic goods   had been paring down inventories in the second half of 2011 and that orders   picked up as retailers ended the inventory reduction. Most contacts expect a   gradual improvement in demand over the next three to six months.
Emergency vehicle, automobile and aviation equipment manufacturers said   demand was flat to up since the last report, and expectations are for strong   sales growth this year. Food producers noted an uptick in orders from the prior   report, largely due to stronger consumer demand. Overall conditions in the paper   products sector were mostly unchanged.
Petrochemicals producers reported several large planned and unplanned outages   at ethylene and polyethylene production facilities, which led to a sharp   increase in prices. Export demand for polyethylene and caustic soda continued to   trend up, while domestic PVC demand remained weak due to low levels of housing   construction and infrastructure projects. Refiners noted weak demand for   petroleum products nationally, although refineries on the Gulf Coast were seeing   slightly higher margins than some other parts of the country. Contacts noted   Gulf Coast refineries were investing heavily on repairs and maintenance during   the current spring turnaround season.
Automobile sales held steady from the prior report. The used car market   remained tight. Vehicle inventories were somewhat lighter than normal.   Expectations are for moderate increases in new car sales this year.
Reports from transportation service firms were positive. Air cargo volumes   rose, while container shipments were flat during the reporting period. Railroads   noted a broad-based increase in shipments, with particularly strong growth in   petroleum products, motor vehicles and equipment, nonmetallic minerals, crushed   stone, metals and metallic ores. Shipping service firms reported an increase in   small parcel shipments from the prior report.
Airlines reported passenger demand improved over the past six weeks. Domestic   demand and travel to Latin America were solid, while travel to Mexico and the   Pacific was weak. Contacts said business travelers remained price sensitive and   were purchasing restricted discount fares. Responding firms expect passenger   demand to remain stable over the next three months.
Nonresidential real estate activity continued to pick up, although   construction remained at low levels. Contacts said recent reports on leasing for   office and industrial space suggest moderate gains, thanks to demand from the   energy and high tech sectors. Investment sales activity continued to improve, in   part, due to very attractive interest rates. Contacts were optimistic in their   outlooks.
