District economic conditions improved in most sectors since our last report.   Manufacturing activity expanded further in January and early February. Retail   sales picked up and shopper traffic moved higher. Revenue growth at   services-providing firms slowed, while most tourism businesses continued to post   moderate gains. Likewise, bankers reported that lending to both residential and   commercial customers increased slightly, although the level of demand remained   low. Both residential and commercial real estate contacts cited moderate gains   in sales and leasing activity during the last six weeks, even though the overall   level of demand was weak. District employment improved somewhat, but both   manufacturers and professional services firms continued to report problems   finding qualified workers. Both manufacturing and services prices received were   up only moderately from our last report, while prices paid moved significantly   higher.
Commercial real estate activity improved slightly since our last report,   especially for office space. A Realtor in the D.C. area reported that he had   been very busy since the start of this year, but mostly with inquiries that had   yet to turn into closed deals. He added that so far this year government-related   activity was down. A Virginia real estate agent noted that while office building   purchases remained weak, some clients had increased their leasing in hopes of   purchasing at a later time. While office rents have stabilized in most areas of   the District, many agents reported that concessions remained widespread. One   Realtor said that, in order to retain struggling tenants, he had been making   repairs and upgrades that would normally be left to the tenant. Retail leasing   activity remained mixed, with one agent reporting that anchor stores at large   malls were stable, but small boutiques in the same malls were having difficulty   meeting their rent and some were closing. On the industrial side, data   processing and distribution centers were a positive source of leasing activity,   according to several agents around the District. While industrial demand   generally remained weak, several contacts reported some improvement since the   start of the year. An architectural firm reported an increase in demand related   to site development, suggesting that industrial clients might be planning   construction starts later this year.
