The Second District's economy has expanded at a somewhat slower pace since   the last report. Labor market conditions have been little changed in early 2012.   Prices remain relatively stable, although business contacts in various   industries indicate some increase in cost pressures. Manufacturers report   further improvement in general business conditions since the last report.   Retailers indicate mixed sales results for early 2012, though auto dealers   indicate some slowing. Tourism activity has strengthened somewhat since the last   report. Home sales have been steady to slightly softer since the start of the   year, but the rental market has continued to improve. Commercial real estate   markets have been mixed but slightly improved, on balance. Finance-sector   bonuses are reported to be down considerably from last year's levels. Finally,   bankers report increased loan demand, some further tightening in credit   standards for commercial borrowers, and lower delinquency rates across all   categories of loans except home mortgages.
Consumer confidence continued to rebound in January. Both the Conference   Board's survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, PA), and   Siena College's survey of New York State residents show confidence rising for   the third straight month and reaching its highest level since last spring.   Tourism activity has strengthened since the last report. New York City hotels   report that occupancy rates continued to run moderately ahead of a year earlier,   with room rates up modestly. After a sluggish December, Broadway theaters report   that attendance and revenues surged more than 30 percent above year-earlier   levels in January--apparently boosted by a combination of unseasonably mild   weather and a larger number of shows now running. Business appears to have   remained relatively robust into the first half of February.
Commercial real estate markets have been mixed but, on balance, somewhat   improved since the last report. Office markets in New York City and on Long   Island showed some further signs of strengthening in early 2012, with vacancy   rates drifting down and asking rents increasing modestly. In contrast, northern   New Jersey's market softened further, as vacancy rates rose to new highs, while   asking rents drifted down. In Westchester and southwestern Connecticut, asking   rents rose, even as office vacancy rates climbed to a multi-year high. Across   upstate New York, office markets were mostly steady, though vacancy rates   declined in the Albany area.
