Economic activity in the First District continues to expand. With the   exception of real estate, business contacts are generally upbeat about recent   results, reporting similar or better growth than in the last couple of reports.   Commercial and residential real estate markets are not much changed, with   respondents citing weak but not disastrous conditions. While staffing firms note   increased demand for labor, contacts in retail and manufacturing say they are   hiring only modestly and plan limited pay raises. With a few exceptions, price   pressures appear to have abated.
Responding retailers report that furniture is selling very well, as is paint.   As noted above, the mild winter has depressed sales of some seasonal items, and   one retailer has steeply discounted winter clothing to get rid of inventory.   Prices on furniture are generally flat, but retailers expect the cost of items   made with copper or titanium oxide (paint) to reflect price increases in these   commodities. Stores are doing light hiring for some full-time and part-time   positions; they are budgeting 2012 merit pay increases between 2 and 3 percent.   Retail respondents expect the U.S. economy to improve further in 2012. While   remaining a bit cautious, they all note that economic conditions seem more   favorable than last fall.
Raw material prices have stabilized overall but remain an issue. On the one   hand, a plumbing manufacturer said that copper is "on the march again." On the   other hand, low natural gas prices have been a boon to U.S. industry. A contact   in the industrial membrane industry reports that a multimillion dollar project   to switch to natural gas has already led to millions of dollars in savings. A   petrochemical contact points out that the equivalent price of natural gas in   terms of oil is approximately $25 a barrel, making the U.S. a low cost producer   of petrochemicals; as he put it, we are "exporting natural gas in the form of   ethylene and polyethylene."
All of our manufacturing contacts are increasing investment and none cites   any issues finding financing. Remarkably, almost all of our contacts say they   have acquired at least one company over the last six months. Almost all   responding manufacturers report increased employment and there are fewer   complaints about difficulties finding qualified workers than in the past; at the   same time, an equipment manufacturer is spending significant sums on training   expenses for new hires. A pharmaceutical firm closed a facility in Philadelphia   and offered jobs in Massachusetts to 20 employees, but reports that only six   accepted, suggesting confidence in the availability of employment.
Europe is a source of considerable concern but has not yet affected our   contacts in a significant way. Two respondents report slower sales in Europe and   one, a plumbing manufacturer, says Europe is "in a recession." Another contact   revised down their sales growth forecast for 2012 by 2 percentage points to 4   percent to 5 percent--with the subtraction attributed to weakness in Europe--but   at the same time indicated the risks had shifted to the upside.
Boston continues to experience a surge of multifamily construction activity,   with several large projects under way and more in the planning stages. Financing   for such projects is available on attractive terms, with interest rates dipping   below 4 percent in some cases. While investors and lenders are bullish on the   multifamily sector and apartment rents have risen significantly in Boston in the   past year, some contacts see a risk of overbuilding. Boston's science and   technology sector is generating significant build-to-suit construction of   laboratory/office space. At the same time, speculative office construction   remains non-existent across the area, and one contact estimates that office   vacancy rates would have to fall below 4 percent in Boston to warrant the   creation of new office structures. While office construction is limited, the   investment sales market for prime Boston office properties remains robust amid a   highly liquid financing environment. Echoing similar comments in recent reports,   however, some contacts perceive that sales prices for prime Boston office   properties are too high in relation to expected fundamentals.
The outlook among contacts is tilted toward optimism. One Boston contact   continues to expect only very slow improvement in leasing fundamentals in 2012,   while another sees greater upside potential. Another contact expects Boston's   multifamily construction boom to last another two to three years, but beyond   that sees few prospects for any new construction activity. Our Providence   contact expects solid improvement in fundamentals in 2012, barring risks to   growth from local fiscal troubles and a possible spike in oil prices. The   outlook in Hartford is moderately optimistic, but based more on sentiment than   recent data. Portland's commercial market is expected to improve slowly in 2012,   although prime office properties may see more robust gains.
Contacts expect to see continued year-over-year growth in home sales in the   region, but do not anticipate significant improvements in the near term, with   prices remaining flat at best. Contacts also note that exceptionally mild winter   weather may prompt spring sales activity to begin earlier than usual.
