Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis and   based on information collected on or before February 17, 2012. This document   summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside the   Federal Reserve System and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve   officials.
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest that overall   economic activity continued to increase at a modest to moderate pace in January   and early February. Activity expanded at a moderate pace in the Cleveland,   Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. St. Louis noted a   modest pace of growth and Minneapolis characterized the pace of growth as firm.   Economic activity rose at a somewhat faster pace in the Philadelphia and Atlanta   Districts, while the New York District noted a somewhat slower pace of   expansion. The Boston and Richmond Districts, in turn, noted that economic   activity expanded or improved in most sectors.
Manufacturing continued to expand at a steady pace across the nation, with   many Districts reporting increases in new orders, shipments, or production and   several Districts indicating gains in capital spending, especially in   auto-related industries. Activity in nonfinancial services industries remained   stable or increased. Reports of consumer spending were generally positive except   for sales of seasonal items, and the sales outlook for the near future was   mostly optimistic. Tourism remained strong in some reporting Districts, but   declined in the Minneapolis and Kansas City Districts because of reduced   snowfall. Residential real estate market conditions improved somewhat in most   Districts, with several reports of increased home sales and some reports of   increased construction. Commercial real estate markets also showed positive   results in some Districts. Banking conditions generally improved across the   Districts. Agricultural conditions were mixed, while extraction activity   generally increased.
Hiring increased slightly across several Districts, and contacts in a variety   of industries faced difficulties finding skilled workers. Wage pressures were   generally contained, and prices of final goods remained stable, although   contacts in some Districts anticipate passing rising input prices through to   consumer prices.
Nonfinancial services activity was stable or increased in the New York,   Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San   Francisco Districts. Transportation services were stable or trending higher in   the Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, and Dallas Districts. In contrast, freight   transportation contacts in the St. Louis and Kansas City Districts reported that   business had slowed. Information technology service firms in the Boston, St.   Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts have experienced increased   demand since the previous reporting period. Additionally, contacts in health   care announced plans to increase capital spending or expand operations in the   Richmond and St. Louis Districts.
Gains in auto sales were reported in the Philadelphia, Atlanta, St. Louis,   and Minneapolis Districts. Chicago also reported sales increases in January, but   noted that sales were down slightly in early February. Auto dealers in the New   York, Cleveland, and Richmond Districts reported a slowdown in recent auto   sales, while auto sales held steady in the Dallas District and contacts in the   Kansas City District reported a post-holiday lull in sales. All Districts   reporting on sales outlooks conveyed optimism. Dealers in the Kansas City   District expect demand for smaller, fuel-efficient cars to spur sales in coming   months, while contacts in the Cleveland District were optimistic but uncertain   that sales increases in 2011 could be repeated in 2012.
Tourism strengthened or remained strong in the New York, Richmond, Atlanta,   and San Francisco Districts. The Minneapolis and Kansas City Districts reported   a decrease in tourism largely attributed to below-average snowfall.
Commercial real estate markets displayed positive results in some Districts,   as leasing showed overall improvement. Minneapolis, Richmond, Chicago, and   Dallas noted increased leasing. Boston, however, reported mostly unchanged   leasing fundamentals with some modest improvement since the previous report.   Commercial vacancy rates were mixed in New York, decreased in Chicago, increased   in St. Louis, and stayed high in San Francisco. Boston and Dallas noted limited   levels of nonresidential construction, while Cleveland and Chicago noted   improved nonresidential construction.
Overall lending standards remained restrictive in San Francisco and Richmond   and were largely unchanged in St. Louis and Kansas City. Lending standards   tightened further for commercial borrowers in New York. Credit conditions in   Chicago improved slightly, while quality improved in Philadelphia and Kansas   City. Delinquencies were steady or declined in Cleveland. Mortgage delinquencies   were steady in the New York District but delinquencies decreased in other loan   categories.
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco noted higher crude oil extraction   activity. Similarly, Chicago and Minneapolis reported robust activity in energy   and mining, and energy-related service firms in Dallas reported very strong   demand. Mining for various metals also increased in the San Francisco District.   Cleveland reported flat conventional oil and natural gas drilling and   production, and San Francisco observed lower demand for natural gas. The Dallas   District noted drilling cuts by a few gas-directed firms, but contacts   anticipate that oil-directed activity will offset losses. Compared with a year   ago, current coal production is lower in St. Louis and higher in Kansas   City.
Among Districts commenting on wages, upward pressures appeared limited.   Boston noted limited pay rises in retail and manufacturing. Richmond reported   some upward wage pressures in the service sector and manufacturing. Dallas and   San Francisco reported minimal wage pressures, although upward pressure for   certain specialized positions was reported in both Districts. Similarly, wage   pressures remained largely subdued in Kansas City except for high-tech and   energy positions. Wage pressures were modest or largely contained in Cleveland   and Dallas, while Philadelphia noted flat wages and Minneapolis reported modest   wage increases. New York noted that Wall Street compensation remains under   downward pressure.
Prices of final goods and services were relatively stable in most Districts.   Retail prices increased at a moderate pace in the Richmond and Kansas City   Districts. Contacts in the New York District reported modest increases in   selling prices and prices paid. Contacts in the Cleveland, Richmond, Kansas   City, and Dallas Districts noted rising input prices with some expectation of   pass-through to consumer prices. Cost pressures were largely unchanged in   Chicago and input prices have stabilized in the Boston District, while business   contacts noted some increase in cost pressures in the New York District.   Minneapolis and San Francisco noted increases in the costs of employee benefits.   Philadelphia noted mixed price pressures among manufacturing firms, with some   firms unable to pass their higher costs along. Atlanta reported that concerns   over increased input costs eased, although several manufacturing firms noted an   increase in commodity prices since the previous report.
