Overall, business activity in the Third District has grown at a somewhat   faster pace compared with the previous Beige Book. The overall sentiment has   been more positive, although the very mild winter weather may have played a   part. Since the last Beige Book, manufacturing activity has grown further with   more broad sectors contributing to the gain. Retail sales maintained steady   year-over-year increases. Motor vehicle dealers experienced unseasonably strong   sales growth overall; however, results varied by state. Third District banks   have reported slight growth in lending and continued improvement of credit   quality since the last Beige Book. New home construction started the year strong   with the warm weather assist. Commercial real estate contacts continued to   report steadily improving markets for industrial, retail, and office space.   Overall, service-sector firms reported continued growth. Price pressures have   remained contained for most sectors, with little change from the last Beige   Book.
Most firms have expressed a brighter outlook since the last Beige Book.   Manufacturers anticipate rising shipments and orders during the next six months.   Retailers expect slightly stronger sales, and auto dealers are increasingly   confident that the current surge in sales will carry into the spring selling   season. Banking, real estate, and service-sector firms continue to plan for slow   growth in 2012. In general, contacts seemed to prefer talking about recent   positive trends rather than reiterating their uncertainty. However, their   concerns continue to include the ongoing slow housing recovery, Europe's   economic problems, and federal budget indecisions.
About nine out of 10 Third District manufacturers expect business conditions   to improve or stay the same during the next six months; most expect their   business to increase. This optimism permeates nearly every broad manufacturing   sector. Increasingly, our contacts cite signs of stronger economic growth,   although some of the expected increase reflects seasonal trends. Risks from   Europe's problems and constraints from a weak housing market continued to add   uncertainty to the outlook, according to some contacts. Expectations of capital   spending and future hiring have strengthened since the last Beige Book.
Auto sales strengthened further in January and February, especially for   Pennsylvania dealers. New Jersey dealers had a stronger December, which may have   pulled sales forward from January; this was in part due to financial-sector   workers spending their year-end bonuses. The outlook for auto sales remains very   strong. Industry contacts indicated that some larger dealers have begun hiring,   mostly in sales. More hiring is expected if robust sales continue into the   spring season.
Brokers and managers of nonresidential real estate have reported generally   improving conditions for industrial, retail, and office space since the last   Beige Book. The industrial market remains strong, and gains are spreading to the   weaker South Jersey market area. High-end and low-end retail markets are   especially strong. Mid-value retail, including grocery stores, which often   locate in community shopping centers and street retail properties, is   struggling, producing higher vacancies. Office market contacts reported that   signs of pent-up demand are emerging that will lead to positive net absorption   by year's end. The overall outlook for nonresidential real estate has improved   since the last Beige Book, but growth will remain modest.
