The Ninth District economy grew at a firm pace since the last report.   Strength was noted in consumer spending, professional services firms, commercial   and residential real estate and construction, manufacturing, energy and mining,   and agriculture. Lack of snowfall reduced tourism activity. Some more firms   announced plans to expand hiring, while wage increases were modest. Overall   prices were level, but some increases were noted.
Tourism was down due to low snowfall in much of the District. The lack of   snow in Minnesota and Wisconsin has stymied snowmobiling and cross-country   skiing. Snowmobile dealerships reported a sharp drop in sales from a year ago.   However, a Minnesota travel company reported strong demand for both corporate   and leisure travel in January; interest in traveling to Europe and other   overseas destinations was up. Another travel agency noted that recent corporate   travel sales were up almost 25 percent compared with a year ago.
Commercial real estate market activity increased. A large warehouse property   manager noted increased transaction activity over the past few months. A major   Minnesota-based broker noted increased leasing of office space. Home sales in   January were up from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul   area, and the inventory of homes for sale continued at low levels. Several   brokers noted that the low end of the market appeared to shift to a "sellers'   market." The multifamily market continued to strengthen in the fourth quarter of   2011 as rents increased and vacancy rates decreased in many markets, according   to a real estate research firm.
However, some employment cutbacks were announced. A Minnesota-based food   retailer will cut about 200 jobs at the company's headquarters. A bank will lay   off almost 70 employees at an auto-debt-collection unit in South Dakota.
Wage increases were modest. Workers at two food operations recently agreed to   a new contract that includes some wage increases over a five-year period. Bank   directors recently reported that business contacts expected wage increases   between 2 percent and 3 percent in 2012 compared with 2011 after remaining level   over the past couple of years. Larger increases were noted in the oil-drilling   area of western North Dakota and eastern Montana, particularly for welders who   were in short supply.
Overall prices were level, but some increases were noted. Minnesota gasoline   prices were up 15 cents per gallon since early January. Bank directors noted   that health insurance costs were up between 6 percent and 8 percent over a year   ago, with some reports of steeper increases.
