Summary The Eighth District economy expanded moderately in recent months, following several quarters of stagnation. Unemployment rates in most District states edged downward. Employment gains in the services and construction sectors were particularly strong. District banks report improved profitability and asset quality in 1988. Outlook A January 1989 survey of 255 District small businesses revealed a slightly more favorable outlook than a year earlier. In both surveys, most respondents felt that general economic conditions would not change substantially in the following two quarters, but far fewer respondents in the most recent survey foresee a general economic weakening. More respondents plan to increase their workforces than in January 1988 (24 percent vs. 12 percent), but there was no change in the percentage planning major capital expenditures in the near future (4l percent). Both surveys found that slightly more than 25 percent of the businesses had job openings they were unable to fill. One quarter planned increases in average compensation to workers in the near future, a slightly smaller fraction than a year earlier. Responses from the 42 manufacturers in the sample revealed that 48 percent plan to hire workers in the first quarter of 1989, double the percentage for the entire sample. The manufacturers were also having more difficulty filling current job openings (38 percent vs. 26 percent overall) and were more likely planning to increase compensation to workers (33 percent vs. 25 percent overall). Employment Payroll employment rose at a 3.4 percent rate in the fourth quarter, following two quarters of stagnation. Strong job growth in services (particularly business and health services), construction and trades was largely responsible for the employment turnaround. Although employment in the District transportation and public utilities sector trended downward in recent quarters, it has continued to grow in Memphis, where the expansion of three trucking firms has caused a shortage of qualified truck drivers. These firms plan to hire 1,500 drivers. Manufacturing Manufacturing employment rose 2.2 percent in the fourth quarter. Employment in the printing and publishing and the food products sectors rose most rapidly. Producers of transportation equipment continued to increase their workforces, Because of a substantial backlog of orders and the development of new products, the production of military aircraft remains strong in Missouri despite an 8.2 percent drop in the state's defense contracts in the last fiscal year. After falling in the previous three quarters, apparel and textile employment has stabilized because of recent increases in denim orders and gradual declines in textile inventories. Several District lumber mills are expanding this year, in response to sharply increased exports. Construction District construction activity has picked up in recent months. In the three months through January, the value of residential and nonresidential contracts rose 4.1 percent and 27 percent. The rise in nonresidential building was partially due to large construction contracts for manufacturing plants in Arkansas, office and medical buildings in Missouri and various buildings in Kentucky. District lumber associations note a slight softening in demand for residential lumber in recent months. Agriculture District extension agents report farmer participation in government programs is down from last year, indicating that farmers are more confident about profitability in 1989. Favorable weather patterns have brought soil moisture to near normal levels in most of the District. Some portions of the District, however, are still experiencing drought conditions, while others are facing excessive moisture problems. Continuing drought conditions, in conjunction with frigid temperatures in northeastern Missouri, may have damaged the dormant winter wheat crop. February flooding in portions of Kentucky and Tennessee has destroyed a small amount of the wheat crop, and continued wetness has prevented farmers from applying fertilizers and herbicides. Banking Preliminary data for year-end 1988 indicates that both profitability and asset quality improved at Eighth District banks. Return on assets averaged 0.93 percent in 1988, up from 0.80 percent in 1987. Nonperforming loans dropped sharply in 1988, from an average of 2.10 percent of total loans in 1987 to 1.61 percent. Net loan losses as a percent of total loans remained virtually flat in 1988 as the reduction in net loan losses by smaller banks was offset by increases incurred by banks with assets over $1 billion.