Summary Business contacts in the Twelfth Federal Reserve District indicate that economic conditions continue to be healthy, with little evidence to suggest that the overall pace of growth is slowing. Expectations regarding GNP growth rebounded in March, with only a third of respondents now expecting weaker growth during the next twelve months. Consumer spending on soft goods has improved in recent weeks, although car sales have been sluggish. Manufacturing activity continues healthy in most manufacturing sectors, with commercial aircraft particularly strong and mixed news coming from electronics and defense firms. Resource industries are stable, but limited log supplies are constraining growth in the forest products industries. Cold and dry weather has generated concern among farmers. Most of the District enjoys healthy construction and real estate conditions, although reports from local observers suggest that the rate of growth may be slowing. Earnings of Twelfth District banks rose to record levels in 1988, but some bankers are concerned that narrowing interest margins and lackluster loan demand may cut into 1989 profits. Business Sentiment Respondents expectations regarding GNP growth rebounded in March. Only 32 percent anticipate weakening during the next year, down from 70 percent in January. Expectations regarding business investment are unchanged, while the prospects for housing and consumer spending seem to have improved. Respondents are less optimistic about improvements in the trade deficit, however. Consumer Spending Department store sales have improved, primarily due to gains in women's fashions. Sales currently are running 5 to 6 percent above year-ago levels. Reports suggest that higher interest rates have had little noticeable effect on busing activity. In Arizona, one consumer confidence index rose 9.3 percent between October 1988 and January 1989. In contrast, car sales have slowed. Dealer inventories are building, so dealers are being very cautious about additional ordering. Higher interest rates are not now the determining factor for car sales, but tighter credit requirements are hurting volumes. As a result, one dealer reports that 30 percent of his potential buyers were turned down for their loans - the highest turndown rate in 3 years. Manufacturing Activity remains healthy in most manufacturing sectors. Capacity limits are binding for many aerospace suppliers and major commercial aircraft companies. Concern is rising that both Boeing and McDonnell Douglas could lose business to Airbus Industrie because delivery times are now so long. McDonnell Douglas is considering building new plant capacity and reportedly is looking outside of Southern California because of the high cost of doing business there. Reports are mixed for electronics and defense firms. Some respondents note strong electronics and high-tech activity, while others note recent weakening, particularly in semiconductor orders. Business continues relatively strong in the paint and coatings industry, with some key raw materials in short supply and escalating in price. For several years, paint and coatings manufacturers have held the line on price increases, despite higher costs, but prices are expected to rise soon. Agriculture and Resource Related Industries Although agricultural market conditions currently are good, weather poses a threat to many western agricultural producers. Freezes have hurt the citrus and strawberry crops, although it is still too early to assess total damage. Continued dry weather through much of the winter has heightened concerns about water availability this summer. Unless March rains are much more plentiful than normal, California farmers will suffer cutbacks in water allocations of as much as 60 percent. As of early February, lumber and wood products orders were running about 7 percent behind last year's level. 1988 production in the coast region was about 10 percent below its 1987 level, and the industry faces supply problems for 1989. Log prices are reported to be up as much as 33 percent, as high log exports stimulate demand while Forest Service policies constrain log supplies. Because of problems obtaining logs, 33 lumber mills on the West Coast have closed down during the past six months. Several reports indicate that paper has become more expensive and more difficult to obtain in sufficient quantity. Prices rose about 5 percent for bond paper and 1 percent for newsprint on January 1. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate activity remain healthy in coastal states. Several respondents note slowing real estate and construction activity although there is disagreement regarding whether recent increases in interest rates have played a role. Some note that the volume of sales has increased recently, and attribute this rise to the fear of further rate increases. Office building in downtown Los Angeles continues strong, buoyed by foreign investment. Some are concerned that if current plans are carried out, over-capacity could be a serious problem by 1992. Financial Sector Most bankers and thrift executives report that loan demand remains relatively weak. Loan volume has been flat for about six months. Few attribute the weak demand to higher interest rates, focussing instead on the continued small pool of quality borrowers. One banker notes that inquiries and fundings on home equity lines are unchanged. In contrast, others argue that higher rates have affected loan demand, making some customers more cautious about borrowing and causing others to borrow before rates increase further. Large banks in Oregon and Washington report that total loans and leases have been rising slightly faster in recent weeks, with accelerating growth in secured real estate loans and weakening growth in unsecured credit. Some bankers report that deposit growth is strong, but others report that the recent rise in interest rates has hurt balances in passbook savings and market interest accounts. Earnings at District commercial banks were up strongly in 1988, following a loss in 1987. Among District commercial banks, return on equity was 15 percent and return on assets was 0.9 percent, both higher than national averages. However, some bankers have expressed concern that a narrowing gap between borrowing and lending rates may be squeezing profits. But one banker notes that the large proportion of adjustable-rate loans should mitigate the problem to some extent. The financial services industry in Arizona continues to show the effects of the downturn in construction. Results for financial institutions are mixed, with sone institutions reporting significantly improved earnings over 1987, while others recently have made additional provisions for reserves.