Ninth District economic conditions have continued to be fairly good. Unemployment rates have risen modestly, mostly due to seasonal changes. Consumer spending has been good. Prices have increased moderately and conditions in resource-related industries have been excellent. Labor Markets The employment situation has been fairly good throughout the district. Between December 1988 and January 1989, the unemployment rate in Minnesota rose to 5.1 percent from 4.1 percent. An analyst, calling this increase a normal seasonal shift, notes that since 1980 the December to January increase has averaged 1.1 percentage points. The unemployment rate in Minnesota in January 1988 was 4.9 percent. The unemployment rate in the Minneapolis/St. Paul metropolitan area dropped to 3.7 percent in December from 4.0 percent in November. A director notes increasing tightness in the Minnesota labor market, particularly in the retail sector. North Dakota's unemployment rate was 5.6 percent in December, up from 5.3 percent in November and 5.0 percent in December 1987. The unemployment rate in South Dakota rose to 4.6 percent in December from 4.3 percent in November, but was lower than the rate of 4.8 percent in December 1987. Montana's unemployment rate in November was 6.0 percent, up from 5.0 percent in October. The unemployment rate in Michigan's Upper Peninsula was 8.7 percent in November, up from 6.7 percent in October, but lower than the 9.6 percent rate in November 1987. Consumer Spending Consumer spending on general merchandise has been fairly strong. One large retailer reports that February sales were up 11 percent from a year ago; and same-store sales, a measure of sales in stores open a year or more, were up 4.7 percent from February 1988. Another retailer reports that February sales were lower than expected with an 8.5 percent increase in sales over a year ago. Businesses in St. Cloud, Minnesota are very optimistic with approximately $40 million in bids for new construction expected to be made in the next two weeks. Much of this construction is for schools, which is considered a good sign of population growth. Inventories are at generally acceptable levels throughout the district. Motor vehicles have been selling well. Dealers for one domestic manufacturer report that sales in the first twenty days of February were down 6 percent from the comparable period in January, but were up 10 percent over the same period in February 1988. Sales were good in January for this manufacturer with car sales up 14 percent and truck sales up 15 percent from January 1988. March Is normally the biggest selling month for motor vehicles, so the next thirty days should set the tone for the next year. There is some uncertainty about the effect of recent interest rate increases on motor vehicle sales. Housing activity has been fairly stable. The number of new housing permits issued in Minnesota increased by 4.4 percent from December 1987 to December 1988. Home sales in the Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area were up 6.24 percent in January 1989 from January 1988. Tourist spending has been good throughout the district. Heavy snowfall in the resort areas attracted a large number of skiers. Prices Prices have generally been rising. The consumer price index for the Minneapolis/St. Paul metropolitan area rose by 4.9 percent from December 1987 to December 1988. Elsewhere, reports are mixed with one observer reporting remarkable price stability in manufacturing durables, while also reporting sharp price increases for new lines of farm equipment. One southern Minnesota farmer estimates sharp increases in production costs for the upcoming year, ranging from 9 percent for grain used as cattle feed, to 14 percent for soybeans. A large wholesaler for grocery stores reports that inflation rates for food products are currently averaging around 4.6 percent. Resource-Related Industries Conditions have been excellent in resource-related industries. The generally good snow cover in the district has restored cautious optimism in most agricultural areas. However, last year's drought continues to raise concerns about soil moisture adequacy in the spring. Economic conditions in the lumber industry were excellent. By one estimate, the pulp and paper industry has committed to $1 billion worth of capital investment in Minnesota over the last couple of years, and a similar amount is on the drawing boards. A large number of new lumber mills are being built and planned in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. The capital investments for these mills range from $38 million to $300 million. Foreign markets are becoming particularly important for the lumber industry, with 20 percent of the output of one producer going overseas. Conditions in mining have also been excellent. A foreign-owned company is expected to take over an employee-owned smelting company located in Michigan's Upper Peninsula. The employees are expected to receive about $60 million for their shares of the firm.