The Eleventh District economy grew at a modest pace since the last report.   Manufacturing activity held steady or declined, while demand for business   services was flat. Activity in the transportation services sector was mixed.   Retailers said sales growth moderated. The single-family housing sector saw   continued improvement, and activity in the multifamily sector was strong.   Office, retail and industrial leasing activity increased, but commercial real   estate investment activity remained sluggish. Financial services respondents   said overall loan demand was soft during the reporting period. The energy   industry continued to expand at a robust pace, while agricultural conditions   remained weak. Employment levels were stable at most responding firms and price   pressures were mostly subdued.
The price of WTI was near $76 per barrel in early October, and has risen to   nearly $100 per barrel. Demand for gasoline has been soft. Diesel demand, in   contrast, has strengthened on a year-over-year basis and prices have climbed   much faster than gasoline. Prices of petrochemicals and plastics declined due to   weak domestic demand and a stronger dollar. Natural gas prices remained low,   near $3.50 per thousand cubic feet throughout the survey period.
Overall conditions in the paper products sector were mixed, but all contacts   described outlooks as weak. Automobile and aviation equipment manufacturers said   sales had softened since the last report but remained significantly up from   year-ago levels. Outlooks are optimistic, with contacts expecting sales to   remain strong through next year. Food producers reported a seasonal increase in   demand, and outlooks were positive, although they are not hiring due to concerns   about current economic conditions.
Contacts described demand as seasonally weak for petrochemicals and plastics.   Sales in domestic markets continued to be sluggish. The recent rise in oil   prices together with lower petrochemical prices is making Texas' natural gas   based products more competitive, spurring exports. Refiner margins were strong   and over $25 per barrel in October, but have narrowed in recent weeks with the   rise in crude prices. Refinery utilization rates were low, as production   declined for the fall maintenance period.
Demand for automobiles held steady. Vehicle inventories have mostly   normalized from the tsunami-related shortage experienced earlier in the year,   but some foreign manufactures have been recently affected by the flooding in   Thailand. The used car market continued to be tight. Contacts expect sales to   slow seasonally through year end, and then to rise moderately in 2012.
Reports from transportation service firms were mixed. Railroad firms reported   a broad-based increase in shipments during the reporting period, but said that   the numbers were somewhat artificially inflated due to capacity coming back   online after the flooding in the northern U.S. Overall container volumes   declined during the reporting period, and outlooks were slightly less optimistic   than the last report. Small parcel shipments rose in October partly due to   growth in retail trade activity. Airlines reported solid and steady demand over   the past six weeks. A major airline noted that business travelers were more   price sensitive than earlier in the year. Domestic demand and travel to Latin   America remained strong, but travel to Europe and Asia was weak. Airline   contacts expect to see stable demand through year end.
Apartment demand rose even more since the last report, and contacts are very   positive in their outlooks. Some respondents noted increased sales of apartment   complexes to investors.
Contacts that lease to industrial, retail and   business firms noted an increase in demand. However, sales of commercial   properties were sluggish given the current financial environment.
