The Second District's economy has continued to grow slowly since the last   report, while the labor market has generally been stable. Manufacturers report   that general business conditions and employment levels have been steady in   recent weeks but that they plan to add workers in the months ahead. Consumer   spending has continued to expand at a moderate pace: auto dealers report that   sales were steady to stronger in October, non-auto retail contacts report that   sales have been on or ahead of plan, and tourism activity has been generally   robust. Home sales and prices have generally held steady since the last report,   though rental markets continued to strengthen. Commercial real estate markets   have shown slight signs of softening. New York City financial firms continue to   face adverse business conditions and have announced impending layoffs. Finally,   bankers report a pickup in demand for commercial mortgage loans, continued   tightening in credit standards, and lower delinquency rates on commercial and   industrial loans.
Consumer confidence has weakened noticeably since the last report. Both Siena   College's October survey of New York State residents and the Conference Board's   survey covering the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, PA) show consumer confidence   falling to its lowest level in more than a year. Tourism activity has been   generally robust since the last report. Albany-area hotels report strong   improvement in occupancy rates in September. New York City hotels report that   occupancy rates were steady at about 90 percent in September and October--up   modestly from 2010 levels; room rates were up roughly 4 percent from a year   earlier in October and total revenues were up about 6 percent. However, Broadway   theaters report that attendance fell 5-10 percent below year ago levels in   October and early November--in part reflecting fewer shows open this year.   Still, total revenues have continued to run ahead of 2010 levels, reflecting   double-digit percentage increases in revenues per show.
Commercial real estate markets have been steady to slightly weaker since the   last report. Office vacancy rates in both midtown and downtown Manhattan ticked   up in October; the average asking rent continued to climb, but this is   attributed to the fact that much of the space recently coming on the market is   in high-priced buildings. A contact in western New York State reports that   commercial leasing activity remains flat, while commercial construction activity   has picked up slightly but remains sluggish; credit availability continues to be   a restraining factor for the market.
Both manufacturers and service-sector firms continue to report stable   employment levels but indicate plans to increase headcounts, on balance, over   the next six months. Manufacturing firms across New York State report that   general business conditions have held steady over the past month, and they   express increased optimism about the near term outlook. Non-manufacturing   contacts are also increasingly optimistic about the near-term outlook, though   less so than manufacturers.
