
Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to grow at a moderate   pace during the reporting period of October through mid-November. Price   increases for final goods and services were limited, and upward pressures on   wages were subdued overall. Sales of retail items rose further, and demand grew   modestly for business and consumer services. District manufacturing activity   edged up on balance. Sales continued to grow for agricultural producers, and   activity expanded for extractors of energy and other natural resources. Demand   for residential and nonresidential real estate remained weak on balance.   Contacts from financial institutions reported little or no change in overall   loan demand.
Upward wage pressures were very modest overall, although contacts noted   persistent upward pressure on benefit costs, especially for employee health   care. High levels of unemployment and limited demand for new employees kept   compensation gains minimal in most regions and sectors. The primary exception   was workers in information technology fields, such as software developers, who   continued to see high levels of recruiting activity and significant wage   increases.
Demand for business and consumer services was largely stable or slightly   improved on balance. Sales continued to grow for providers of technology   services, in particular for software applications used for mobile computing and   communication devices, although the pace of growth eased a bit further. Energy   utilities noted largely stable demand from businesses and households. Demand for   professional services, such as legal services and accounting, also was described   as largely unchanged. Providers of health-care services reported that demand   softened a bit further, as reflected in a slight decline in inpatient admissions   and surgical procedures. Activity in the District's travel and tourism industry   picked up: contacts in Hawaii noted an uptick in visitor volumes, reversing the   slight decline in the prior period, and contacts in San Diego and Las Vegas   reported ongoing increases in hotel occupancy rates.

