The Ninth District economy grew moderately since the last report. Strong   growth was reported in the agriculture, energy and mining sectors. Modest to   moderate growth was noted in consumer spending, tourism, residential and   commercial construction, residential real estate and professional services.   Activity in commercial real estate was flat, while manufacturing was mixed.   Labor markets showed some signs of tightening, while wage increases remained   moderate. Prices generally were level.
Tourism activity was up from a year ago. According to officials, momentum   from a very good summer tourism season in Montana continued into the fall.   Occupancy at Minnesota's hotels and motels increased almost 5 percent during the   third quarter compared with a year ago.
Commercial real estate markets were flat. Respondents to the Minneapolis   Fed's ad hoc survey noted flat revenues and profits over the past three months.   The commercial real estate sector is still very weak, particularly in office   space. "Very little expansion by companies, so the only activity seems to be   companies shopping for lower rates," commented a Minneapolis-St. Paul area   contact. Residential real estate markets grew. Home sales in October were up   significantly from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area,   while the inventory available for sale shrank.
Wage increases were moderate. Members of a South Dakota county highway union   recently agreed to a 5 percent pay cut in 2012. The business outlook poll shows   that 96 percent of respondents expect wages and salaries in their communities to   increase no more than 3 percent. However, some fast food restaurants in western   North Dakota were offering wages as high as $15 per hour to attract   employees.
Prices generally remained level, although some exceptions were noted.   Minnesota gasoline prices continued to decrease since the last report, but were   still 54 cents per gallon higher than a year ago. Meanwhile, a South Dakota   manufacturer noted that steel prices have softened recently. According to   respondents to the business outlook poll, 41 percent expect to increase prices   for their businesses' products and services in 2012, up from 35 percent last   year.
