Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and   based on information collected before November 18, 2011. This document   summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside the   Federal Reserve System and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve   officials.
Overall economic activity increased at a slow to moderate pace since the   previous report across all Federal Reserve Districts except St. Louis, which   reported a decline in economic activity. District reports indicated that   consumer spending rose modestly during the reporting period. Motor vehicle sales   increased in a number of Districts, and tourism showed signs of strength.   Business service activity was flat to higher since the previous report.   Manufacturing activity expanded at a steady pace across most of the country.   Overall bank lending increased slightly since the previous report, and home   refinancing grew at a more rapid pace. Changes in credit standards and credit   quality varied across Districts. Residential real estate activity generally   remained sluggish, and commercial real estate activity remained lackluster   across most of the nation. Single family home construction was weak and   commercial construction was slow. Districts mostly reported favorable   agricultural conditions. Activity in the energy and mining sectors increased   since the previous report.
Hiring was generally subdued, although some firms with open positions   reported difficulty finding qualified applicants. Wages and salaries remained   stable across Districts. Overall price increases remained subdued, and some cost   pressures were reported to have eased.
Motor vehicle sales increased in a number of Districts. Gains in auto sales   were noted in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, and   Minneapolis. Chicago also reported gains in sales during October, but noted the   pace of sales slowed in November and that dealers suspected consumers may be   waiting for potential end-of-year deals. Upstate New York dealers reported that   sales were steady to stronger and that dealers' service and parts departments   continued to perform well. Auto sales were solid in Kansas City, while demand   held steady in Dallas. Inventory levels were generally lean or lower than   dealers would like in Philadelphia, Cleveland, and St. Louis. In Dallas, vehicle   inventories had mostly normalized, while inventory levels increased in Kansas   City. Both Philadelphia and Dallas noted supply disruptions for some foreign   nameplates due to the flooding in Thailand.
Tourism showed signs of strength. New York and Atlanta described tourism as   robust and strong, while activity increased in Minneapolis and posted moderate   improvement in Richmond. Boston noted that the travel and tourism sector   continued to see strength in overseas and business travel, while discretionary   domestic leisure spending was fueled by the affluent customer. In Richmond,   tourism was largely flat, but some contacts were cautiously optimistic about the   winter season. Airline contacts in Dallas expected to see stable demand through   year-end. Strength in hotel bookings and occupancy were noted in Boston, New   York, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco.
Changes in credit standards and credit quality varied across Districts.   Philadelphia noted that credit quality continued to improve but at a slower   rate. Kansas City saw stable or improving loan quality. Dallas noted that the   quality of loans outstanding continued to improve, with contacts reporting a   decline in problem loans. San Francisco saw a slight improvement in overall   credit quality. Cleveland, Chicago, and St. Louis noted relatively unchanged   credit quality. Boston, Richmond, and Atlanta saw some tightening of standards.   In New York, bankers reported declining delinquency rates for commercial and   industrial loans, but no change in delinquencies for other loan categories.
Commercial real estate markets remained sluggish across most of the nation.   Boston, New York, Chicago, Minneapolis, and San Francisco indicated roughly   unchanged activity. Atlanta and Kansas City noted slight improvement.   Philadelphia and Dallas indicated mixed activity. However, Richmond and St.   Louis noted that vacancy rates increased. Commercial construction was somewhat   mixed. Cleveland saw steady to slowly improving commercial construction; Chicago   and Minneapolis experienced modest to moderate increases. New York and   Philadelphia noted generally weak conditions; Richmond and St. Louis reported   slow activity, although industrial construction picked up.
Activity in the energy and mining sectors increased since the previous   report. Cleveland, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco saw   increases in oil exploration. Cleveland and Dallas also reported growth in shale   gas extraction. Coal production was flat in Cleveland and decreased slightly in   St. Louis, though it is still up for the year. Minneapolis reported that more   wind energy projects were planned. Mining activity increased in San Francisco   and remained at elevated levels in Minneapolis.
Wages and salaries remained stable across Districts, although some exceptions   were noted. In Cleveland, wage pressures emerged for truck drivers as the pool   of available drivers shrank relative to job openings. Manufacturing wage growth   strengthened in Richmond, while hiring stabilized and the average workweek was   unchanged. Some wage growth was noted among the highly skilled trades in   Atlanta. In Minneapolis, wages increased sharply at some fast food restaurants   in western North Dakota. Kansas City reported that some energy and information   technology firms raised wages for skilled workers; Dallas reported the same for   airlines and a few construction-related manufacturers. San Francisco noted   persistent upward pressure on benefit costs, especially for employee health   care.
Overall price increases remained subdued, and some cost pressures were   reported to have eased. Boston, Atlanta, Chicago, and Kansas City noted a   moderation in input cost pressures. In Cleveland, manufacturers' reports on   changes in raw materials prices were mixed; the transportation sector noted   higher prices for tires, parts, and equipment; and fuel prices exhibited some   volatility. Richmond reported that raw materials, retail, and services prices   grew at a somewhat faster pace. Restaurants in Kansas City expected higher menu   prices due to rising food costs. In Dallas, prices for new cars rose slightly,   and staffing and legal services firms noted modest increases in billing rates,   but natural gas prices remained low. San Francisco reported a recent uptick in   the prices for energy inputs, particularly oil, and for assorted food items at   the retail level. Atlanta noted that most businesses had limited ability to pass   on increases in input prices from earlier in the year.


