Recent reports on economic activity in the Fifth District mostly described   conditions as either unchanged or slightly improved. The more upbeat reports   came from the retail sector, which rebounded in November, and the tourism   sector, which continued to post moderate improvement. The agricultural sector   also enjoyed a good harvest. Reports on manufacturing activity indicated little   change over the last month, following several months of contraction. Likewise,   the service sector was generally characterized as being flat, although a few   bright spots were noted. Other sectors, including finance and real estate,   reported generally mixed conditions. We received a wide variety of reports on   the labor market, ranging from lower employment in the retail sector to several   firms having trouble finding workers. Retail prices rose more rapidly than in   our last report, as did service prices and commodity input prices.
We received varied reports on commercial real estate and construction. While   construction was generally weak throughout much of the District, several new   manufacturing projects were announced in North Carolina. Smaller projects were   being built faster due to abundant labor availability. Contractors reported that   refurbishing of commercial properties was up in both Maryland and the Carolinas,   but no one was adding new capacity. A general contractor in the Baltimore area   reported that he was having his "best year ever" after partnering with a larger   firm. However, a builder in the Baltimore area said that his market was flat.   Also, a Virginia contractor noted that commercial and federal work has dried up   in most areas of the state, with D.C. capturing much of what little work there   is. A real estate manager in West Virginia reported that office demand in that   state was down and construction activity was weak. A developer in North Carolina   stated that many developers were running out of cash and that getting bank   financing was a challenge. Finally, a Maryland developer noted that BRAC-related   work was ending and his company had little backlog.

