Business activity in the Fourth District expanded at a modest pace since our   last report. Manufacturers reported that new orders and production were stable.   Single-family home building remained sluggish, while construction of   multi-family housing rose. Inquiries to nonresidential builders picked up some,   but backlogs are still low. Retail sales increased slightly. Auto dealers   described sales of new and used vehicles as very good. Shale gas drilling and   production continued to expand. Freight transport volume was stable. The demand   for business credit grew moderately, while consumer loan demand was weak.
Hiring remains at a low level across almost all industry sectors.   Staffing-firm representatives reported modest growth in the number of new job   openings and placements, with vacancies concentrated in professional business   services and energy. Wage pressures are contained. Respondents noted some upward   pressure on prices, especially for metals and petroleum-based products.
Manufacturers remain committed to their capital spending plans, with many   steel companies expecting to increase outlays during the upcoming months.   Capacity utilization remains below normal at most factories, while steel   producers saw their utilization rates at or near normal levels. Inventories are   in line with sales for a majority of our contacts. Reports on raw materials   prices were mixed. Half of our respondents said that prices were steady or   declining; others told us that prices continue to rise, but at a slower rate   than earlier in the year. Increases were mainly associated with metals and   petroleum-based products. Changes in raw materials prices were passed through to   customers. New hiring remains at a low level. Those adding to payrolls found it   difficult to recruit highly skilled workers. Wage pressures are contained.
Activity in nonresidential construction for small to medium-size builders was   described as steady or slowly improving. While the number of inquiries has   picked up recently, the biggest challenge facing builders at this time is adding   backlog. One contractor commented that the incubation period for public   infrastructure projects can be as long as five years. Construction contracts   were primarily in education, manufacturing, energy, and research and   development. Looking forward, builders expect modest growth at best during the   next six months. We heard several reports of upward pressure on prices for   copper and steel, though the price of lumber declined. Construction managers are   in the process of laying off seasonal workers.
Auto dealers characterized new-vehicle sales during October as very good,   with most of our contacts reporting higher sales volume when compared to   year-ago levels. Demand was strongest for fuel-efficient, less-expensive cars,   and crossover vehicles. Inventories continue to be rebuilt but remain below what   dealers would like. Dealers are cautious in their outlook due to uncertainty   about the economy, and the availability of vehicles that consumers want to buy.   Demand for used cars is up substantially since the beginning of October; prices   remain elevated. Two dealers noted that there has been a sharp increase in   manufacturers' incentives, which they attributed to the model-year changeover.   The few dealers looking to hire reported that it is difficult to find qualified   candidates, especially sales representatives and service technicians.

