Business activity in the Third District has returned to a path of slow   overall growth since the previous Beige Book. Following unusual weather   disruptions from an earthquake, a hurricane, and a tropical storm during late   summer, the region was visited again – this time by a rare early season   snowstorm. The weekend storm caused widespread electric utility outages and   disrupted business, but the cold weather ultimately triggered shoppers' interest   for the winter season. Since the last Beige Book, manufacturing activity has   grown modestly, but steadily. Retailers reported renewed growth in   year-over-year sales. Motor vehicle dealers experienced strong year-over-year   sales growth; however, Thailand's recent widespread flooding has caused another   supply disruption of auto parts. Third District banks have reported slight   growth in loan volume outstanding since the last Beige Book. On balance, new   home sales continued below year-ago levels, while construction activity   strengthened since the last Beige Book. Reports from commercial real estate   contacts were more mixed by sector and location, but slightly positive overall.   Service-sector firms reported generally modest growth. Price pressures remained   contained for most sectors but continued to strain profit margins in all but a   few sectors.
Most Third District business contacts had already lowered their expectations   over the past few months--projecting slow to flat growth through year-end.   Ongoing uncertainty since the previous Beige Book has not significantly altered   their outlook. Manufacturers still expect a modest rise in shipments and orders   during the next six months. Retailers are hopeful for stronger sales, and auto   dealers are uncertain; both have lean inventory plans. Most banking and   residential real estate contacts had lowered their expectations before the last   Beige Book. Commercial real estate contacts and service-sector firms continue to   plan for slow growth; however, uncertainty has increased.
Third District manufacturers expect business conditions to improve during the   next six months, despite persistent uncertainties. Since the last Beige Book,   the general outlook has improved substantially, with few firms expecting a   decline, while most are divided between no change and some increase.   Expectations of capital spending and future hiring have nearly doubled among   area manufacturers.
Auto sales continued to grow steadily in October, according to Third District   auto dealers. The sellers' market also continued – boosting profits – as used   cars remained scarce and as supply disruptions are recurring for Honda and   Toyota, this time from Thailand's floods. Inventories remained lean. Pent-up   demand for Japanese models may delay a return to normal price competition until   well after supply has normalized.
Nonresidential real estate sectors reported mixed results with leasing   strength in select markets but few gains in construction. Investment interest   has strengthened in multifamily properties, while leasing activity grew for   trophy office space (desired by large legal firms) and for research facilities   (for new and expanding biotechnology firms). Demand for retail space continues   to weaken. Public infrastructure spending remains low. Beyond generally weak   demand, an architect cites regulatory burdens for permits and financing as   barriers. New construction or renovation plans are mostly limited to   institutional, life sciences, multifamily, and warehousing sectors in select   markets. Some construction activity for warehousing represents site relocations   within the three-state region. Construction/maintenance work has also slowed in   advance of three anticipated oil refinery shutdowns. The overall outlook for   demand of nonresidential space is for continued slow growth.
