The economy of the Eighth District has slowed since our previous report.   Manufacturing activity has declined, while reports of activity in the services   sector have continued to be mixed. Retail sales in September and October   declined slightly over year-earlier levels, and auto sales increased over the   same period. Residential real estate market activity has continued to decline,   while commercial real estate market conditions have been mixed. Overall lending   at a sample of large District banks was unchanged during the three-month period   ending in October.
Car dealers in the District reported that sales in September and October were   up, on average, compared with last year's sales. About 46 percent of the car   dealers surveyed saw increases in sales, while 33 percent saw decreases and 21   percent saw no changes. Twenty-five percent of the car dealers reported that new   car sales had increased relative to used car sales, while 21 percent reported   the opposite. Roughly 29 percent of contacts reported an increase in sales of   low-end vehicles relative to high-end vehicles, while 13 percent reported the   opposite. Thirty-three percent of the car dealers surveyed reported that their   inventories were too low, while 13 percent reported that their inventories were   too high. The sales outlook through the end of the year was somewhat optimistic:   50 percent of the car dealers expect sales to increase over 2010 levels, while   25 percent expect sales to decrease and 25 percent expect sales to be similar to   last year's sales.
Reports of activity in the District's services sector have continued to be   mixed since our previous survey. Firms in business support services, medical   research services, and transportation services announced plans to expand   operations and hire new workers. In contrast, contacts in temporary help   services, government services, and education services announced plans to   decrease operations in the District and lay off employees.
Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions varied throughout the   District. Compared with the second quarter of 2011, third quarter 2011 suburban   office vacancy rates increased in Little Rock and Louisville but decreased in   St. Louis and Memphis. The downtown office vacancy rates increased in Louisville   and St. Louis but decreased in Little Rock and Memphis. Industrial vacancy rates   increased in Memphis and St. Louis but decreased in Louisville and remained the   same in Little Rock. Commercial construction activity was slow throughout most   of the District, while industrial construction showed signs of improvement in   some areas. Contacts in southern Indiana noted that commercial construction   activity continues to be slow. However, contacts in Evansville, Indiana, noted   increased power plant construction projects. Similarly, contacts in south   central Kentucky noted industrial plant expansions. Contacts in St. Louis   reported continued limited commercial and industrial construction activity and   expect mainly build-to-suit projects for the remainder of the year.

