Most business contacts in the First District continue to report   year-over-year revenue increases, but an uncertain outlook. Responding retailers   cite mixed results and increased optimism about 2012; manufacturing contacts, by   contrast, say they are uncertain about the outlook even though most current   results remain good. Software and IT services companies continue to see good   demand growth, while results are mixed, though mostly positive, for staffing   firms. Real estate markets remain subdued. With the exception of software and IT   services, contacts say their firms are doing mostly replacement hiring; some   cite difficulty in filling specific skilled jobs. Cost pressures are said to be   modest.
The travel and tourism sector continues to see strength in overseas and   business travel, while discretionary domestic leisure spending is fueled by the   affluent consumer. One weak spot is booking for end-of-the-year holiday parties.   Hotel bookings for 2012 remain strong. The September tourism slowdown noted in   the last round of calls seems to have been temporary. This contact continues to   expect 2011 tourism growth of 5 percent to 8 percent over 2010 and predicts 2012   tourism revenues to be 10 to 12 percent above 2011.
The pricing picture continues to improve. Materials price increases and   shortages that characterized the sector in 2010 are said to have largely   subsided. One contact in the chemical business says that input costs are   "falling like a rock" and attributes the attenuation to China "putting the   brakes on." A semiconductor contact says that while the price escalation and   shortages of rare-earth elements endemic at the beginning of the year are no   longer a problem, prices remain high. A laboratory-instrument maker says that   high energy prices are leading them to shift freight from air to ships. In   general, contacts say they have little trouble passing price increases on to   customers. Respondents who cite falling input prices also report increased   downward price pressures on the output side.
Manufacturers in the First District are hiring in general but not a lot; most   report hiring only selectively to fill vacancies. Only one firm is laying off   workers. A contact supplying the auto industry had planned to increase headcount   3 percent in 2012 but has now decided to freeze hiring, approving no new   positions and abandoning approved but unfilled positions. Several firms cite   trouble finding qualified staff, generally for technical positions, with one   contact in the industrial motor business saying that larger firms are "poaching"   machinists from a North Carolina plant. A pharmaceutical firm reports problems   finding technical staff and also accountants and other less specialized   skills.
Contacts do not, in general, report any major changes to their capital   spending plans. Several firms mention increased expenditure on information   technology, including two who are installing new ERP (enterprise resource   planning) software systems. One contact in industrial distribution said that the   purpose of the increased investment is to "grow the business without increasing   headcount." Several firms report significant capital expenditures overseas,   generally with the goal of supplying overseas markets.
The outlook for 2012 is very cloudy. Virtually all of our manufacturing   contacts express misgivings. Some are concerned about the crisis in Europe but   others express the vague fears that have characterized our conversations over   the last 18 months. A contact in the semiconductor industry says there is less   "visibility" than at any previous juncture. Most firms have not officially   revised their forecasts for 2012 and continue to plan for growth. A chemical   industry contact says he is "following his head and not his stomach" because, by   the numbers, 2012 looks promising but his experience and intuition tell him   otherwise. A contact in the industrial motor business says that their   "book-to-bill" ratio is 1.07, so backlog is growing, but he describes himself as   "worried."
The investment sales market remains strong in Boston, as prices edge slightly   higher for prime office and apartment buildings. Apartment construction in   greater Boston remains very active, with numerous developments in progress and   more new buildings in the pipeline, although other construction activity remains   limited throughout the region. The lending environment continues to offer   plentiful financing--and on increasingly favorable terms--for premier   properties, especially in Boston, while financing remains harder to obtain for   riskier properties and those in secondary and tertiary markets.
Outlooks for the remainder of the year are mixed, with some contacts   anticipating 2011 sales falling short of last year and others predicting sales   to reach last year's level. Respondents expect relatively stable prices in the   coming months, but note the possibility of moderate declines.
