Overview Reports from businesses contacted in February were more mixed than has been the case in recent months. While manufacturing activity levels were below or barely equal to those seen a year ago, several retailers and residential realtors have seen either a bottoming out or slight pickup in recent weeks. Producers in construction- and transportation-related industries reported no signs of improvement. Some current offset in the generally weak construction sector is provided by work on a number of large industrial and government projects, and rising home sales. Industries related to agriculture and energy are experiencing growth or remain stable. Oil price declines this year have allowed some farms to restore profit margins and others to lower prices. Reports from bankers indicate that consumer and commercial lending remains sluggish. Retail Sales Retailers report that sales dropped dramatically during the first week of the Gulf war but that they rebounded after that time. Overall, retailers said that January and early February retail sales fell below or only equaled last year's levels. Contacts reported that durable goods sales continued to decline, and a few contacts noted a drop in their historically strong catalog business. Most merchants said they were cautiously ordering durables because they expected sales to be lackluster at least until spring. However, discount stores continued to report strong sales, particularly for nondurables, and were ordering more aggressively than last year. Auto dealers, meanwhile, have reported improved sales recently following an initial deep plunge at the beginning of the war. An Atlanta dealer emphatically said "we have seen the bottom." The convention business in Atlanta and Orlando is reported to be down while New Orleans' convention attendance levels are up slightly from "solid" year-earlier figures. Manufacturing Producers in several important regional industries report declining or flat sales in January and early February compared to year end; they say that soft orders suggest that improvement is not yet imminent. Declining orders caused a heating and air conditioning company to reduce its 1991 sales forecast by 5 percent recently, and cut its employment level by 10 percent. Home furnishings manufacturers, textile and auto producers, and auto parts manufacturers say that they are responding to bleak sales with further layoffs and plant closings. A jet engine parts maker, previously producing near capacity, reports that expected airline and military spending cuts will result in a significant number of layoffs at its southeastern plants. Formerly strong exports of pulp, paper, and chemicals now are reported to be softening. This export slowdown is reflected in a report by a power generation equipment producer which indicates that new orders from pulp and paper producers are down. Generally, businesses report cutbacks in capital spending, though a majority say these are temporary. Other significant industries report stable or growing sales. Producers of military boots and camouflage apparel say their order backlogs have lengthened and that they are expanding their work forces in order to fulfill growing military demand. Contacts say that stronger markets for agricultural products have strengthened sales of fertilizer and other farm supplies. A sugar processor says that its 1990 sales were up 18 percent from 1989. A poultry- processing firm reports that stronger demand for its product by fast food stores has bolstered production and sales. Oil producing activity reportedly has remained stable throughout the steep price swings of the past half year. Financial Services Bankers report flat business and consumer loan demand in January and early February compared to the last reporting period, and attribute it to a general lack of confidence in the economy. Contacts say that commercial loans were flat because firms have maintained low inventories and reduced capital spending. However, a major regional bank's working capital lines are reported to be growing due to its easing of credit terms. Banking contacts say that lending conditions still are tight for some borrowers, particularly for real estate development. Borrowers representing stable industries such as utilities report that credit market conditions are favorable. Construction Commercial construction and homebuilding activity across the region remain at levels well below those of a year ago and of recent months. Commercial construction, except for a number of industrial projects, was described as "dead" by a large building materials manufacturing company that has already cut its work force by 30 percent over the past year. According to other contacts, a number of large highway and other government construction projects that are underway across the region should offset some of the weakness in commercial construction. Additionally, realtors report improvements in existing home sales in January and February, and they indicate that overall home sales probably have bottomed out. Wages and Prices Recent oil price declines have been passed through to customers in industries with automatic adjustment clauses such as utilities and some transportation companies. Others, however, are still putting through lagged adjustments to earlier increases. Prices for fertilizers and some other energy-intensive products are even reported to be rising. Contacts in some transportation companies say they are rebuilding previously squeezed profit margins. A refrigeration machinery company contact reports that his suppliers seem to be benefiting from lower energy costs and are holding prices steady. Business contacts generally report easing wage pressures. Technical workers such as welders still are reported to be scarce in Louisiana while there is a growing pool of plumbers, electricians, and other building trades workers in the region due to construction's decline.