Overview Growth in the Tenth District economy has slowed somewhat, due in part to weaker performance in the agricultural and energy sectors. District farmers are cautiously limiting their purchases after making modest financial gains last year. And, drilling activity in the district has slipped in recent weeks due to tumbling oil prices and uncertainty about the future strength of OPEC. On the positive side, manufacturers export sales are increasing modestly and retail sales are flat to improving slightly. Retail Sales Retailers generally report flat to slightly improving sales. While consumers are still steering clear of big ticket items, they are buying more apparel. Retailers are keeping prices generally stable, except for special promotions, to keep from discouraging customers further. Most retailers are generally satisfied with their inventory levels and are continuing to keep them low even though banking on improved sales after the Persian Gulf War. Auto sales are down in almost all parts of the district. Adequate dealer financing is available, but some potential buyers are having difficulty getting loans. Weak sales are frustrating dealer efforts to trim inventories. Respondents expect auto sales to remain flat over the next two to three months before gaining strength. Manufacturing Most purchasing agents report moderate increases in input prices, with only scattered reports of larger price increases, in the near term, agents expect prices to be relatively stable as inputs appear to be readily available, Most firms continue to trim inventories. Some firms report slightly higher export sales and expect further increases during the rest of 1991 due to economic growth abroad and the weaker dollar. Energy Oil prices have tumbled to pre-invasion levels due to abundant crude oil supplies and the winding down of the Gulf War. Lower oil prices and uncertainty about the future strength of OPEC have caused district drilling activity to subside in recent weeks. The average number of operating drilling rigs in district states fell from 295 in January to 263 in February. Still, the district rig count remained about 3 percent above its year-ago level. Housing Activity and Finance Housing starts over most of the district were even with the previous month. While starts are still below year-ago levels, most builders expect an increase during the second half of the year. Construction materials are readily available with few reports of price increases. New home sales and prices are mixed, as is the outlook for new home sales. Most district thrifts report continued deposit outflows. Mortgage demand is weak, with some increase in refinancings due to recent declines in mortgage rates. Respondents expect rates to stabilize after falling slightly over the next few months. Banking Most commercial bankers report loan demand lower or unchanged compared with last month. Demand for commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, and construction loans was down at several banks and unchanged at most others. In contrast, demand for home mortgages and agricultural loans was constant or up at most banks. Demand for consumer loans was generally steady. Loan-deposit ratios were unchanged from last month at most banks. Most reporting banks lowered prime interest rates last month, and nearly half of the reporting banks expect further declines in the near term. While consumer lending rates were unchanged at most banks, half of the banks expect to lower rates in the near term. Nearly all banks reported terms of lending unchanged from last month. Deposit behavior varied considerably during the past month, across both reporting banks and categories of deposits. About equal numbers of banks reported higher and lower demand deposits, while MMDAs were up at most banks. In contrast, large CDs were constant or down at most banks. Changes in other kinds of deposits varied widely. Agriculture Spring credit reviews show modest financial gains overall by district farmers during the past year. The results of the reviews, however, differed markedly for crop and livestock producers. For crop producers, weak grain prices limited incomes. For livestock producers, low feed prices and continued strength in cattle and hog prices bolstered incomes. Although most banks have not changed their credit standards since a year ago, some banks are examining loan requests from grain producers more closely. Capital expenditures by farmers in the district are down from a year ago. Many farmers have limited their spending to necessities and purchases of used rather than new equipment. Prospects of weak grain prices, higher production costs, and smaller government payments are probably responsible for reining in capital spending. The condition of the winter wheat crop varies across the district. Cold, dry weather in recent months has left the crop in poor condition in parts of Oklahoma and Kansas but in good condition elsewhere. Normal yields are attainable in most of the district if sufficient rainfall is received during the remainder of the growing season.