Summary District economic activity continues to contract, but not as sharply as indicated in our preceding report. Retail sales, though still depressed, show signs of improvement. Durables manufacturing activity continues to weaken, but declines are mitigated by export growth. Demand for transportation services generally is weak. Declines in residential construction and sales appear to have bottomed out. Loan growth, while still weak, has shown some improvement. Activity in natural resource industries is weak. Consumer Spending Recent retail sales are near or slightly below their year-earlier level; in many cases, substantial price cuts were used to move goods. Some retailers, however, report slight sales increases which they feel reflect rising consumer confidence. Many retailers expect March sales to improve, but only slightly. Typical responses regarding recent motor vehicle sales were "quite poor" and "almost nil." Sonic dealers are cutting inventories by reducing orders. Contacts believe sales are depressed because many consumers have a "wait and see" attitude. Manufacturing Many durables manufacturers making products related to autos, construction and appliances continue to receive declining orders. For instance, one Kentucky steel mill is cutting production substantially. Vehicle assembly plants in St. Louis and Louisville ordered temporary layoffs in response to rising inventories and weak sales. In St. Louis, contacts anticipate the elimination of jobs by defense contractors and motor vehicle producers, layoffs by other manufacturers and the lack of growth in most other sectors will result in declining employment levels throughout most of 1991. While inventories of most manufacturers are near desired levels, an increasing minority of producers, including those making rubber insulation and copper tubing, report excessive inventories. Recent experiences of nondurables manufacturers have been mixed. A shoe manufacturer reports that orders have been soft since June; the outlook is uncertain because customers have been slower than usual in making commitments for the Fall season. Meanwhile, food processors continue to receive steady or rising orders. Exports For many manufacturers, including those producing boxes, electrical components, wire and wood products, rising sales to foreign markets have partially offset the loss of domestic orders. Sales to Mexico and some European markets are especially strong. Contacts believe the resolution of the Persian Gulf war will stimulate exports to the Middle East. The level of southern pine lumber exports is reported as steady, while District crop exports, except wheat, have fallen. Transportation and Distribution One airline in St. Louis has ordered layoffs, while another has pulled our of the Memphis market. Both actions are partially in response to a reduction in the demand for air service stemming from the Gulf war. Air passenger traffic is flat in Louisville and below year-ago levels in Little Rock and Memphis. Recent air cargo shipments are up in both Louisville and Memphis, compared with a year ago, but barge traffic on District rivers is down. Orders for pellets, a barometer of future shipping, continue to "nose-dive." Construction and Real Estate Single family housing starts in the District were substantially below their year-ago level in January; however, some District contacts believe the downturn in the residential market has bottomed out. Realtors in Louisville, St. Louis and Memphis report increased buyer interest due to lower interest rates and a rise in consumer confidence. One Memphis contact said continued difficulty in obtaining financing was forcing developers to reduce inventories and some developers fear a shortage of new homes if financing difficulty persists. Banking and Credit Total loans on the books of large District banks showed a smaller decline from mid-January through mid-February than they did for the previous month. Smaller declines in real estate and consumer loans appear largely responsible for the improvement. Total loans for a sample of small and mid-size District banks show similar trends. Contacts blame weak new car sales for consumer loan softness. Loan officers report mixed activity in commercial lending. A St. Louis banker said a number of companies that normally obtain funding in the commercial paper markets were making inquiries about bank financing. Natural Resources Year-to-date District coal production is down 11 percent from a year ago. Abnormally high stockpiles of coal at utilities, reduced demand for high-sulfur coal and slow growth in electric output contributed to the decrease. Both southern pine lumber mills and hardwood products manufacturers report that orders are down substantially from a year ago due, in part, to weak home building.