Overview District business and financial activity apparently weakened somewhat in recent weeks, although there was a noticeable shift toward optimism about near-term prospects. Retail sales, manufacturing, real estate, tourism, and bank lending evidently declined in January and February. Exports were generally unchanged and imports rose at District seaports. Mild weather conditions likely benefited agriculture. Survey respondents, even those surveyed before the ceasefire in the Gulf War, were decidedly more optimistic about the economic outlook than they had been a few weeks ago. Further, some who remained pessimistic believed that the economy would begin to recover when the conflict ended, a condition now apparently met. Consumer Spending Our regular survey of retailers suggested that retail activity softened in late January and early February. Most of those surveyed reported decreases in shopper traffic and in total sales, including sales of big ticket items. Nearly four in five reported that sales had declined since the Allied air campaign began. Employment at retail stores decreased, while wholesale and retail prices increased. A majority of the retailers expected their sales to rise in coming months. This optimism contrasted with retailers' pessimistic survey responses a few weeks ago. Manufacturing Our regular mail survey of manufacturers indicated that District manufacturing activity declined slightly in January and early February. Far more respondents reported decreases than increases in shipments, orders, and employment. Over two-thirds said poor sales were their biggest problem. Nearly half said that sales had declined since the Gulf War began, while only one in eight said sales had picked up. Most manufacturers indicated that the prices and inventories of their raw materials and finished products had remained stable in recent weeks. Activity in the textile and furniture industries remained depressed. Several producers have gone out of business in recent months. Most manufacturers were operating on reduced workweeks. One producer expressed concern over the deteriorating quality of manufacturers' accounts receivable. Looking forward, however, manufacturers were optimistic for the first time in several months. One-half believed that orders would increase over the next six months, while only a few foresaw a decline. Similarly, one-half expected conditions in their local areas and in the nation to improve in the next six months. Port Activity District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that exports were generally unchanged while imports were generally higher in January than in December. Compared with a year ago, export shipments were higher at all three ports and imports were higher at two. Authorities at all ports expected exports to rise faster than imports over the next six months. Real Estate Commercial and residential real estate activity apparently remained weak across most of the District during late January and early February. Contractors and real estate analysts reported very little commercial construction in their areas. One analyst said that absorption of existing office space was slowed by the consolidations of many service-producing firms, primary users of office space. Buyer interest in houses apparently rose, but home sales remained sluggish in most urban areas and home prices were reportedly down slightly. Sales activity was reported weakest in the most expensive segment of the market and generally stable in the lower-priced segments. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts indicated that tourist activity was below average this winter. Over half the respondents experienced declines in room occupancy while one-third noted little change. The slow tourist business was attributed to the Gulf War, the general economic slowdown, and the lack of snow for skiing. The respondents expected business to improve, however, in the months ahead. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone reported that loan volume and interest rates were lower in recent weeks. Loan demand was also down compared with a year earlier. Almost all of those contacted reported extremely slow commercial real estate loan activity, with little borrower or banker appetite for loans. Bankers cited uncertainties related to the Gulf War and sluggish economic conditions as reasons for the slowdown in consumer loans. Several bankers said that the recent economic downturn had dampened consumers' willingness to borrow. One Northern Virginia banker, however, reported a large increase in residential mortgage applications in the days leading up to the ceasefire, and several thought demand would pick up somewhat in coming months. Almost all of the bankers expressed a belief that current lending standards were prudent and, for the most part, not causing creditworthy borrowers to be refused credit. Several said, though, that appraisal costs and the lengthy approval period for mortgage loans may have caused some potential borrowers to withdraw applications. Agriculture Farm analysts reported that mild winter weather had generally benefited small grains and lessened the drawdown of winter hay stocks. Mild weather apparently helped many District farmers begin spring planting preparations earlier than usual and also may have boosted survival rates of winter calves.