Recent reports on District developments have been soft to mixed. Sales results at department stores have continued below targeted levels and District unemployment rates rose substantially in January to levels above the national average. More positively, homebuilders noted a recent upturn in buyer interest though the market remains soft, and office leasing activity stepped up. The majority of officers surveyed at small and medium-size banks reported that loan demand is generally weak. Consumer Spending Sales results at District department stores in January were below targeted levels though generally somewhat better than parent company's nationwide averages. Contacts reported good results early in January but a decided slowdown in sales following the start of the Persian Gulf war. However, a brief period of cold weather helped to move items such as outerwear and sweaters. Most retailers reported over-the-year sales gains in January ranging from 0.5 percent to 3.5 percent though one chain had a year-to-year decline. Big ticket items such as furniture, rugs and other home furnishings continued to be hard hit as they have for several months. Fall and winter apparel moved well at most stores after postholiday markdowns to make room for new spring merchandise. As a result, inventories were described as on target and, in one case, below planned levels. Retailers are generally cautious about the near-term outlook in view of the recession and consumer concern about the likelihood of further layoffs. Residential Construction and Real Estate Homebuilders in several parts of the District report an upturn in buyer interest during recent weeks though the market continues to be described as basically soft. Potential buyers have been visiting model homes in greater numbers and prices on existing homes have fallen sufficiently in some areas to motivate purchases by first- time homeowners. Lower mortgage rates and greater optimism about the Gulf situation were mentioned as contributing factors. Many participants are now cautiously optimistic that some improvement over last year will occur. Builders continue to report some difficulty in obtaining adequate financing, however. While District office leasing activity has recently stepped up, little or no improvement in office vacancy rates has resulted because of the continued marketing of new or no longer needed space. In fact, in mid-Manhattan, where new office towers are still rising, the vacancy rate rose by almost a percentage point between November and January and is now about three percentage points above January 1990. Vacancy rates on District retail space have also been increasing. Other Business Activity District unemployment rates rose substantially in January to levels above the national average. New York's rate increased to 6.5 percent from 5.5 percent in December while New Jersey's rate rose to 6.4 percent from 5.9 percent. In a separate report, the New York Department of Labor noted that during 1990, job losses in the state were greater than in any year since 1975. Further dampening the District' s labor markets were announcements of yet another round of large-scale layoffs by three financial firms and the Navy's cancellation of a contract with Grumman Corporation. Both the Buffalo and Rochester surveys of purchasing managers reported an increase in the percentage of firms with improved business conditions in January following a large decline during December. Two-thirds of the respondents in Rochester anticipate stable business conditions over the next three months. Financial Developments The majority of loan officers surveyed at small and medium-size banks in the District report that loan demand is generally weak, as indicated by a decline in loan applications. Most bankers noted that consumer credit is the weakest sector although business loan demand has also declined. However, respondents noted that mortgage refinancing has increased significantly as rates on fixed rate mortgages have declined relative to those on variable rate mortgages. While loan inquiries have recently increased, customers reportedly seem reluctant to take on additional debt, despite generally lower interest rates, given the uncertain economic conditions. In order to stimulate loan demand, all the banks surveyed are undertaking more aggressive advertising campaigns. However, some officers expressed doubts that such efforts will stimulate much new demand until confidence in the economy improves. Although the majority of respondents said that their standards for qualified customers have not changed over the last year, some have tightened credit requirements, particularly in evaluating applications for real estate related loans.