Summary Economic conditions in the Twelfth District are reported to be sluggish, but western business leaders' outlook for future economic conditions improved for the first time since August 1990. Price and wage increases remain moderate throughout the District. Retail sales slowed substantially immediately following the outbreak of the Gulf War, but activity has picked up since then. Manufacturing activity is mixed in the West, with some firms reporting increased orders for war-related products. The District's agriculture and forest product industries continue to face difficult conditions. Construction and real estate activity remains slow in much of the West. District financial institutions report a drop in loan demand in the past several months. Business Sentiment The economic outlook of western business leaders improved slightly in February, although expectations about future economic growth remained pessimistic. Seventy-three percent now foresee a national recession in the coming year, compared to 81 percent in January and 75 percent in November. Expectations about business investment, housing starts, and consumer spending improved for the first time since last August. Business leaders' outlook for inflation continued to improve, with 53 percent now expecting inflationary pressures to ease in the coming year. Almost 60 percent of respondents now project improvement in the foreign trade balance during the next twelve months, compared to 29 percent in January. Wages and Prices Reports from throughout the Twelfth District indicate that prices have stabilized recently, and wage increases remain moderate. Prices have declined for many agricultural and natural resource products, including livestock, wheat, timber, natural gas, and oil. Increases in prices for department store merchandise remain in the 3 to 4 percent range. Health care costs, however, continue to rise at a 15 to 20 percent rate. Recent union contracts for a wide range of industries in the Northwest brought wage increases from 2 to 4 percent. Wages in financial institutions are reported to be rising at or below last year's rate. Retail Trade and Services Twelfth District retail trade activity declined sharply immediately following the outbreak of the Gulf War in mid-January, but many reports indicate a slight rebound since then. One District auto dealer reported that sales came to a halt for 3 or 4 days after the start of the war, but that showroom traffic has picked up recently. Similarly, department store sales softened in mid-January, but also have improved in recent weeks. The war reportedly further eroded consumer confidence, leaving buyers more cautious. Reports indicate that Southern California continues to post the weakest retail sales in the District. The rise in consumer uncertainty also has affected the tourism industry in some parts of the West. In Hawaii, tourism has dropped off sharply, leaving the hotel occupancy rate down approximately 30 percent. The District's media industry is facing difficulties as a result of weakening economic conditions and the war. Newspaper advertising, particularly national accounts, continues to fall off significantly at the same time that costs are rising as a result of expanded Gulf War coverage. Television advertising also has dropped off, as advertisements were canceled at the start of the war, and expanded network coverage cut into available advertising spots. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the West is reported to be mixed. Defense- related manufacturing remains weak overall, although some companies report a pick-up in activity related to the Gulf War. War-related orders range from engines for missiles to processed food products. Several District manufacturers report increasing interest from overseas buyers, including Eastern Europe, Latin and South America, and the Middle East. Business investment plans for many manufacturing firms in the District remain cautious. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Difficult conditions continue for the District's agriculture and forest products industries. The fifth year of drought in California will result in reduced production of field crops and increased production costs. Higher feed prices and lack of adequate grazing land will force cattle into feedlots early, lowering livestock prices. California farmers with access to Colorado River or Sacramento Delta water, or who have their own wells will likely come through the drought in good shape. For many others, reduced production may be partially offset by rising prices for their products. The District's wood products industry continues to weaken in response to slow economic activity. Western lumber production is reported down 24 percent in the first five weeks of 1991 from the same period a year ago. Orders and shipments of pulp and paper products also are reported off significantly from last year. Soft demand has left prices lower, with lumber prices down 8 to 12 percent, and pulp and paper prices off 19 percent from a year ago. Some firms in the Northwest with expertise in oil spill clean-up will be involved in the effort to handle the spill in the Persian Gulf. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate activity remains weak in much of the West. In California and Washington, both commercial and residential construction continues to soften. Developers report increasing difficulty in obtaining financing for real estate projects. Slowing real estate sales have cooled housing prices in Los Angeles and Seattle. In Salt Lake City, however, home prices and rental rates continue to rise. New apartment buildings in Oregon report vacancy rates of less than 2 percent. Financial Institutions Financial institutions in the District report difficult conditions. Loan demand in much of the West has slowed significantly. Bankers admit to tightening credit standards, and report that highly leveraged companies and speculative real estate projects will face difficulty obtaining credit. The bankers insist that loans are readily available to borrowers with strong balance sheets and solid cash flow. Many reports suggest that weak economic conditions combined with closer regulatory scrutiny have caused this tightening of credit standards.