Overview Contacts in the Southeast generally reported improving economic activity since the last Beigebook period. Merchants said recent sales have bettered year-ago levels and expressed optimism about the fall season. Manufacturers generally expect to continue to see rising orders and output in the coming months, but gains are seen as modest and no significant hiring is expected. Summer tourism and theme park attendance appears to be exceeding expectations in most locales. Single-family housing sales are improving, and prices in some areas are increasing; markets also reportedly continue to strengthen for the commercial and multifamily segment. Bankers note generally healthy commercial and consumer loan demand. Most contacts believe that wage and price pressures are under control and expected them to remain so for the foreseeable future. Consumer Spending Retailers throughout the District reported that sales were above last year's levels during June and early July. Most merchants said that inventories were in good shape, with several noting that their inventories were actually a little under plan. Home furnishing sales have improved as have sales of women's and children's apparel. According to several retailers, men's apparel sales have slowed recently. Overall, retailers remain optimistic and expect good back- to-school sales. Auto sales, on the other hand, were generally characterized as sluggish. Manufacturing Factory activity is improving or steady, according to most industry representatives, but recent gains in shipments and new orders have been modest. Inventories for most producers are said to remain below levels posted earlier in the year. Most manufacturers contacted anticipate further near-term output increases; however, new hiring remains restrained. Some apparel manufacturing contacts said demand had recently been stronger than expected; however, some producers continue to announce layoffs. Increasing output was reported by chemical plants, but they expressed a concern about the availability of raw materials. Industrial computer systems and electronics manufacturers note increasing order backlogs. Shipments are increasing for medical equipment fabricators, and producers of heavy-duty trucks say that strong demand has them operating at 100 percent capacity. On the other hand, central Florida continues to be adversely impacted by military contractors' job cuts. Slow auto sales have also forced a regional tire producer to cut production. Although current sales remain good, some paper industry managers are becoming uneasy because of possibly slowing demand. Tourism and Business Travel Tourism is reported to be improving notably in Florida. There are more European visitors, and occupancy rates are rising. Savannah's tourist infrastructure is benefitting from improvements spurred by the Olympics. Casino gambling activity in Mississippi is reportedly stable to increasing, and hotel occupancies in New Orleans are above historical averages. On the basis of the record so far this summer, attendance at the region's theme parks is expected to outpace last year's figures. Construction According to real eats contacts, single-family home sales continued to improve throughout most of the District during June and early July. Realtors are again attributing the increase in housing demand to low mortgage rates. However, home inventories are extremely low in several markets, driving home prices up modestly. Single-family home construction activity is generally mixed. Both realtors and builders are cautiously optimistic that the market will continue to improve. Commercial and multifamily contacts continue to report strengthening activity. Multifamily construction demand continues to be strong in many areas of the market but has slowed slightly in some. The majority of commercial construction remains build-to-suit; however, several major speculative office buildings have broken ground recently or been announced within the District. Realtors are optimistic and anticipate that both commercial and multifamily markets will continue to strengthen moderately during the remainder of 1995. Financial Services Bankers around the region report that overall loan demand remains moderately strong but portray competition on both price and credit terms as fierce. Commercial demand remains relatively strong. Most contacts reported moderate to strong activity in commercial and industrial lending; however, demand for commercial real estate loans has slowed. Consumer loan demand was generally characterized as mixed. Several bankers noted that home equity credit lines were doing quite well. They said that lower rates have spurred mortgage lending in the last few months. Refinancing activity has not been quite as strong as some bankers expected. With mortgage rates edging up again, many contacts expected home mortgage lending to slow somewhat in the coming months. Auto lending was reported to be flat. Wages and Prices Although a few areas still face a shortage of skilled workers, wages generally remain stable in the region. Most contacts continue to report little change in prices received for finished goods or prices paid for materials. Few expect price changes in the near term. Those reporting price increases were confined mainly to the chemical, paper, and building products industries.