Summary The pace of economic growth in the Twelfth District picked up a bit in early summer, although some signs of weakness remained. Retail sales generally continued to be weak, and the earlier dropback in construction continued to hold down manufacturing production of construction materials. However, manufacturers of some other products reported higher rates of resource utilization. Residential real estate and construction activity reportedly experienced a slight uptick in early summer, with the exception of parts of California. District agricultural production has been hampered by abnormal weather. The banking sector reports further growth of loan demand in the District. Business Sentiment Twelfth District business leaders generally expect national economic growth over the next year to stabilize at about its long-run average pace. Also, about one-half of the survey respondents expect the national unemployment rate to exhibit little change or to improve slightly over the next four quarters. Within the region, housing starts and growth in consumer spending are expected to continue at about the pace of the prior four quarters, and business investment is expected to accelerate somewhat. Business sentiment is particularly optimistic in Oregon and Utah. California respondents generally expect business investment and consumer spending to continue expanding at a moderate pace. Retail Trade and Services Retail sales are weak for some products and in some geographic areas. District retailers report continued weak sales at automobile dealers and food stores, and sales of soft goods at department stores are reportedly falling short of last year's trend. Sales of both new and used motor vehicles were weak recently. Some retailers in California and Utah reportedly have tempered price increases out of fear of hurting their sales, given continued evidence of weak consumer confidence. Relative to a yew earlier, retail sales are way off in the Riverside area of Southern California. District service industries generally report continued moderate expansion of demand. In California, the demand for telecommunications services is growing moderately. The tourism industry is doing relatively well in San Diego. More generally, business activity near the border with Mexico reportedly has been stimulated by a proliferation of maquiladora factories just across the border. In Oregon, demand for business services is increasing, owing, an part, to additional outsourcing by major corporations. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity is mixed. Some respondents report continued high production levels, strong orders from their customers, and a lengthening of delivery times by suppliers. In contrast, manufacturing of construction-related materials continues to be weak, despite a recent uptick in orders for some materials. For example, wood products orders and prices reportedly have increased since early June, reflecting some revival of housing construction. However, manufacturers' sales of paint and coatings have not experienced any uptick and remain well below year earlier levels. In Arizona, Nevada, and Oregon, the rapid expansion by manufacturers of advanced technology products reportedly is boosting job growth. In Washington, an electronic components manufacturer reports that its suppliers are experiencing capacity constraints for the first time in this business cycle. Deliveries of farm equipment and parts also have been delayed, and heavy truck manufacturing remains at a high rate of capacity utilization. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries District agricultural producers noted that unusual weather this year has hurt yields and boosted prices for several commodities. Abnormal weather reportedly is moving grain prices higher, knocking tree fruit yields down 25 percent, and delaying harvest of the cotton crop. However, cattle production reportedly continues at high levels, and harvests of most types of seafood we going well. Elsewhere, the mining industry in the Intermountain states reportedly is stable or improving, with an upswing in gold mining in Nevada. Real Estate and Construction In many areas residential real estate and construction activity experienced a slight uptick in early summer, but in some localities these sectors have deteriorated further. Housing sales and construction are reported to be firming in Arizona, Nevada, ad Oregon. Within California, the residential real estate market in the San Francisco Bay area recently improved, according to some accounts; however, in Sacramento, residential building permits and existing home sales are reported down sharply, and respondents reported concern about the impact of the closure of McClellan Air Force Base. Residential construction also continues to slump in the Central Valley and Riverside areas of California, and local housing markets are weak in eastern Washington. Commercial and industrial real estate activity in the District generally has been flat to improving. In Oregon, construction awards have increased, as the multiplier effects began to resonate from a string of expansions by high-technology product manufacturers and from earlier rapid population growth. Nonresidential construction activity also continues to be strong in southern Nevada. Financial Institutions District banks generally report further growth of loan demand. In Arizona, Nevada, and Utah, strong business loan demand prevails, and residential loan demand is reported to be rising, after slumping earlier. In recent months, large California banks have continued to see strong overall loan growth in the state as a whole, led by increases in commercial and industrial loans. However, in parts of Southern California loan demand continues to be weak.