Summary District economic growth increased in June and early July. Consumer spending and housing activity remained on the higher growth path that developed late in the second quarter. Manufacturing output flattened out on a seasonally adjusted basis, following a significant deceleration centered in consumer durable goods production earlier in the year. Manufacturing inventory contraction abated, but many producers remain wary about inventory levels. District employment growth has slowed during 1995, but labor shortages have been partly responsible. Labor markets remain tight in many areas of the region. Crop prices have risen sharply, as yield concerns for the 1995 harvest added to earlier pressures from strong consumption and a cut in seeded grain acreage. Industrial input price increases continued to moderate, however, and prices have actually declined for some important industrial materials. Retail Sales Reports from retailing contacts suggest that District consumption growth remained on the higher plane that developed late in the second quarter. A survey of retailers in Michigan suggested that sales growth increased on a seasonally adjusted basis in May and June, led by sales of durable goods, while optimism about future sales gains remained high. Two large department store chains reported stronger apparel sales growth than earlier in the year. One large retailer stated that sales growth in June was boosted by an easier year-over-year comparison, but the gain was still stronger than earlier in the year, and durable goods sales continued to lead overall gains in early July. A large bank stated that revolving credit rose quite strongly in recent months, with particularly strong gains noted in spending on home electronics. Appliance and electronic firms agreed that computers and communications equipment continued to take a growing share of consumption spending. A large consumer goods manufacturer reported that sales of traditional television sets have remained relatively flat this year, but sales of large-screen TVs are "still going gangbusters," with unit sales growth in excess of 30 percent. An auto industry analyst estimated that the net effect of rising lease expirations on new vehicle sales has been increasingly positive in 1994 and 1995. Most surveyed auto dealers stated that the leasing option continued to promote new vehicle sales, on balance, thus far this year. Lease renewal rates have been holding steady during 1995, according to one large automaker. Housing Construction Existing home sales in the region strengthened significantly during June and July on a seasonally adjusted basis. Residential construction remained relatively flat, but homebuilder optimism continued to improve. A number of realtors' associations noted that sales gains improved in June and July, after weakening in the spring. One of the largest realtors in the region characterized existing home sales market as "very active" in June, with transactions "unusually strong." Another large realtor stated that "up until May, things were kind of slow. Since May 1, however, we've seen a dramatic turn upward." This firm posted sales records in May and June, and stated that "at this point in July, things look very, very strong." Banks reported that residential mortgage applications increased considerably in recent weeks, both for new mortgages and refinancing, and one bank stated that it had a large backlog of unprocessed applications. Industrial construction activity continued to grow at a brisk pace, and a number of contacts stated that contractors in the Chicago area were "fully booked" for 1995. Manufacturing District manufacturing output stabilized in June and July on a seasonally adjusted basis. The composite index for purchasing managers' surveys in Chicago, Detroit, and Milwaukee pointed to a significant slowdown in District industrial output in the second quarter. This index remained stronger than the national average, however, and both the Chicago and Milwaukee survey indexes firmed up in July. District steel production tended down along a normal seasonal pastern in the first three weeks of July, after declining on a seasonally adjusted basis in the three months ended in June. An industry analyst reported that order books for the third quarter have been filling up in recent weeks, and output in July is expected to be the low for the third quarter on a seasonally adjusted basis. However, this contact expected industry inventory to continue to decline in the third quarter. Most of the recent inventory trimming was concentrated in sheet products related to auto and appliance production. Demand for structural and plate steel used in construction applications and heavy equipment remained strong. Auto and appliance output firmed up on a seasonally adjusted basis, but have yet to post any significant rebound in spite of reports of great retail sales growth. Light vehicle deliveries strengthened in June and early July, and some industry analysts even expected auto output to increase slightly in the third quarter. Heavy-duty truck order cancellations rose considerably in recent months however, and build plans imply a decline in assemblies by the end of the year. Factory shipments of major appliances weakened slightly on a seasonally adjusted basis during late June and the first two weeks of July, after strengthening in May and early June. Factory inventories of appliances fell sharply in June, and then flattened out in recent weeks. Reports from heavy machinery manufacturers remained relatively upbeat. For example, a construction industry analyst reported that unit sales of new equipment rose sharply in the latest reporting period (May). Year-to-date, this contact reported that sales in the Midwest posted the largest year-over-year increase in the nation, despite especially adverse weather earlier in the year. An air cargo firm focused on construction equipment and parts stated that "we had a huge June, and expect July and August to be just as strong." Labor Markets Employment growth has slowed along with the overall District economy, but labor markets remain relatively tight and shortages continue to constrain growth in pans of the region. The employment component of purchasing managers surveys firmed up in recent months, after falling with the production indexes earlier in the year. A large daily newspaper reported that year-over-year gains in help- wanted advertising inches have been narrowing in recent months, but they remain high and showed a significantly stronger year-over-year gain in late July than for the year-to-date. Summarizing the results of a survey of Wisconsin employers, a regional analyst stated that labor shortages were likely to constrain growth in that state over the next five years. Manufacturing and services firms have reported continuing increases in entry-level salaries this year. One large bark has raised entry-level wages three times thus far in 1995, and has increased benefits paid to part-time workers. Agriculture Crop prices have risen sharply this summer as yield concerns for the 1995 harvest have added to earlier pressures from strong consumption and a cut in seeded grain acreage. Crop conditions vary across District states, with ratings better-than-normal in northern areas and lower-than-normal in southern areas. However, compared to the extraordinarily high per-acre yields of last year, even normal yields in 1995 will translate into a sizable decline. Crops weathered a mid-July heat wave reasonably well, but abnormally high livestock losses were reported in a few localized areas. Overall, livestock marketings and milk production continue above the record pace of a year ago but a downturn in pork production is likely this fall. The scaling back in pork production is more evident in District states as production continues to expand in a few other fast-growing areas. Prices Industrial input price increases continued to decelerate. The price component of the Chicago purchasing managers survey dropped significantly in July, to a level consistent with only modest increases in industrial input prices. Spot steel prices have been declining, mainly for sheet products, and an industry analyst stated that a scheduled July 1 price increase failed to materialize (in fact, there was a decline). Plastic resin prices stabilized in July, after weakening in June. Although prices charged by resin producers were largely unchanged in June, an industry analyst stated that prices charged by distributors fell, and producers turned away sales at lower prices and suggested customers contact distributors. A large air cargo firm stated that emergency orders and premium pricing associated with shortages have fallen off this year, even as orders strengthened overall in June and July.