Economic activity is slowing in the First District. Sales or revenues of a majority of retail and manufacturing contacts in New England are flat to down from a year earlier. Most prices are reportedly flat. Commercial real estate markets are mixed, with the office and retail sectors weaker than last year. Retail Most retail contacts in the First District express disappointment with their June and July sales growth from a year earlier, which ranged from 5 percent declines to gains of 5 percent. Even an exception, a large chain posting double-digit sales growth, noted that recent sales of durable goods were below expectations. Contacts view the next six months with great uncertainty, anticipating level to modest sales gains. Retailers of women's apparel see no immediate relief from continuing aggregate sluggish sales and battles for market share. Contacts suggest that women have become more reluctant to buy clothing because of greater expenses for health coverage and elder and child care, increased interest in home renovation and inexpensive casual wear, and little concern for "chasing fashion." Most vendor prices remain stable; by exception, recent increases in cotton prices are expected to boost prices of cotton goods this fall and winter. Most retailers, particularly off-price discounters, are struggling to maintain gross margins and profits. Only two contacts plan significant increases in their 1995 employment levels and capital budgets. In contrast to the disappointing retail situation, the region's tourist industry reports extraordinary activity this summer, far exceeding expectations. Both Americans and foreigners are attracted to New England, reportedly by reasonably priced package vacations offering mental points of interest, much as outlet shopping, cultural events, and outdoor experiences. Manufacturing Most First District manufacturers contacted report that recent revenues are flat to down slightly from their levels of a year earlier. However, about one-third of the contacts indicate double- digit sales gains for machinery and equipment. Although traditional European markets have been sluggish, some companies report substantial growth in exports to developing countries. Employment generally has moved in the same direction as sales. Manufacturers indicate that their input end selling prices are mostly flat. Prices of petrochemicals and copper are reportedly rising and shortages of memory chips are leading to some temporary price increases. One contact notes that an anticipated increase in paper prices did not materialize, while another reports that surcharges for chrome appear to be ending. Prices of computers and of machinery sold to automakers continue to fall. Capital spending has increased over the past year at most contacts, with close to half the sample reporting a substantial increase. Much of the additional investment is being driven by the development of new products. In some cases, a changing product mix is also leading to selective hiring. Most manufacturers believe that they will be operating in an environment of slow economic growth in coming months. Some are hopeful that new products or successful promotion of existing products will boost sales. Temporary Employment Firms Temporary help firms are holding their own in the New England region, according to industry contacts. Although growth rates have declined slightly from last year, sales continue to climb at a healthy pace, averaging 15 to 20 percent increases over year-earlier levels. Personnel supply firms expect to see continued strong demand for temporary workers in the fall. Commercial Real Estate The apartment and industrial markets continue to expand in the First District, while the office and retail sectors are lagging behind. Contacts report negative absorption in downtown office markets in Hartford and Providence, small gains in Boston (well below last years strong pace), and only Portland showing significant improvements. Suburban office markets are doing better than downtowns, a pattern one respondent attributed to substantial new leasing activity from small, fast-growing high-tech and software companies that prefer suburban locations. Net absorption is strong in the Massachusetts and Connecticut industrial markets, particularly among smaller companies that require less than 50,000 squire feet of space. The lack of new multifamily construction combined with strong demand is leading investors to propose new apartments in suburban Boston. Nonbank Financial Services The majority of respondents at life insurance companies report lower sales in the second quarter of 1995 than in the second quarter of 1994. The decreases are mostly due to weakness in sales of variable annuities and individual life insurance. Employment at the responding companies was flat to down in the second quarter, and they expect flat or declining employment for the rest of the year.