Overview The Tenth District economy continued to grow at a moderately strong pace over the past month. Retail sales increased, manufacturing activity remained generally strong, homebuilding rebounded somewhat, and energy activity quickened. Agriculture, however, was hampered by poor crops and low cattle prices. Manufacturers still report increases in some materials prices, but retail prices and wages have been stable. Retail Sales Most retailers report that sales increased last month and were higher than year-ago sales. Sales of apparel were strong, but sales of home improvement items were sluggish. Retailers generally expect sales to improve during the remainder of the year and plan to expand their inventories accordingly in coming months. Auto dealers report sales increased over the past month, helped by readily available credit for buyers and dealers. Most respondents expect sales to continue increasing during the next few months. Manufacturing Manufacturers continued to operate at high levels of capacity last month. None of the respondents report bottlenecks in production due to capacity or labor constraints, but some report difficulty in obtaining steel. Respondents were generally satisfied with current inventory levels, but a few were trimming stocks. Energy District energy activity picked up slightly in recent weeks despite a sharp decline in crude oil prices. Some of the new activity was spurred by a modest increase in natural gas prices from the low levels reached earlier this year. The average number of drilling rigs operating in the district during the first three weeks of July stood higher than the average for the previous two months. The uptick, however, was not large enough to restore drilling activity to year-ago levels. Housing Builders report housing starts rebounded somewhat last month but remained below their year-ago level. Sales of new homes also picked up but lagged behind their year-ago pace in many areas of the district. Building materials were generally available with no delays. Lenders expect lower mortgage rates to fuel moderate growth in mortgage demand in the coming months. Banking Loans increased slightly at district banks last month, resulting in higher loan-deposit ratios. Most respondents report gains in commercial and industrial loans, consumer loans, home equity loans, and agricultural loans. Demand was steady for home mortgages, construction loans, and commercial real estate loans. Security investments decreased. Most banks report no change in their prime rate last month, but some banks lowered rates and additional declines may be forthcoming. Only a few banks lowered consumer lending rates or expect to lower rates in the near term. At all banks, lending standards remain unchanged. Total deposits at district banks were steady last month. MMDAs increased slightly and NOW accounts decreased slightly. Large CDs, demand deposits, and small time and savings deposits were unchanged. Agriculture Unfavorable weather has diminished prospects for district crop production. Harvest of the district's winter wheat crop is nearly complete, but crop yields and quality are well below normal. Development of the district's corn and soybean crops remain a few weeks behind normal due to planting delays last spring. Ideal weather will be required during the remainder of the growing season to attain normal yields. Higher crop prices, however, promise to shore up incomes for farmers who escape severe crop losses. Higher crop prices have also boosted feed costs and deepened losses for district cattle producers. A surge in red meat and poultry production promises to hold down cattle prices, delaying a rebound in industry profits. With profits down, some district ranchers plan to trim the size of their breeding herds. Overall, farm income in the district may decline slightly this year after a much steeper drop last year. The drop in farm income has weakened business activity somewhat in small rural communities that depend heavily on agriculture. But business conditions remain healthy in the larger rural trade centers that have a broad economic base. Prices and wages Manufacturers continue to report increases in materials prices, especially in paper and steel. Labor markets remain tight in some parts of the district, but few employers report wage increases. Retailers report steady prices and expect no significant price increases over the next few months.