Overview The rate of economic expansion in the Fifth District appears to have been steady in late June and July. Retailers and manufacturers reported that growth slowed in their industries, but service producers reported that growth picked up. Residential and commercial real estate contacts and financial industry sources reported little change in their sectors. Contacts at area ports and in the tourism industry reported increased activity, and temporary employment agencies saw stronger demand for temporary workers. Government contacts reported mixed trends in state revenue growth. Agricultural conditions were good, although adverse weather damaged some crops and poultry. Retail Trade Indicators of retail activity growth decreased in July from their June levels, according to preliminary results from a mail survey of District retailers. The indexes of sales, employment inventories, big-ticket sales, and shopper traffic were lower. The index of wages changed little, however. Survey respondents indicated that retail prices rose more slowly in July. They foresaw increased growth in the demand for their products, and they expected their prices to rise more rapidly during the next six months. Service Production Indicators of service-sector activity growth increased in July from their June levels, according to preliminary results from a mail survey of District service producers. The indexes of revenues and wages rose. The employment index changed little. Service producers reported that their prices rose more slowly in July. They expected the growth in demand for their services to change little during the next six months, and they expected their prices to rise more slowly. Manufacturing Indicators of factory growth decreased in July from their June levels, according to a mail survey of Fifth District manufacturers. The shipments and backlog indexes decreased, and the new orders, employment, and workweek indexes changed little. Manufacturers were more optimistic about the growth in shipments and employment during the next six months, but their expectations about the workweek changed little from June. They also anticipated decreased finished goods inventories. Finished goods and raw materials prices rose more slowly in July than in June, and at rates below the general inflation rate. Respondents expected their prices to rise more slowly during the next six months than they had expected in June. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity in June and early July was above that of May and a year ago. Summer bookings were up compared to a year ago, and contacts expected better-than-normal business and unchanged prices during the next six months. Port Activity Representatives at District ports indicated that export and import levels in June were higher than those in May and a year ago. Contacts expected that both exports and imports would increase during the next six months. Temporary Employment A telephone survey of Fifth District temporary employment agencies indicated that the demand for temporary workers in June and early July was higher than it was a year ago and was little changed from its May level. The demand for clerical workers was particularly strong. Contacts expected demand during the next six months to be greater than usual. Temporary workers' wages rose faster than the general price level during the past year, although most contacts expected wages to stabilize during the next six months. Finance District financial institutions reported that credit conditions were mixed during the past seven weeks. Interest rates fell moderately for consumer and commercial loans and rose slightly for mortgage loans. Demand increased for mortgage and commercial loans but fell slightly for consumer loans. Residential Real Estate According to a telephone survey of District real estate agents and homebuilders, residential real estate activity was unchanged in June and early July. Building permits, housing starts, and home sales were stable over the period, except in North Carolina, where building permits and housing starts increased. Buyer traffic increased, and most contacts attributed the increase to lower mortgage interest rates. Contacts reported that lower- to middle- priced homes were selling better than expensive homes. Home prices were unchanged, except in North Carolina, where they increased. District building material prices and subcontractor wages were steady. Commercial Real Estate District contacts reported that commercial real estate activity changed little in June and early July. Leasing activity was unchanged, except in North Carolina, where it increased. Vacancy rates declined slightly, and commercial rents changed little. The availability of prime office space tightened in most District cities, and contacts reported shortages of such space in North Carolina and the District of Columbia. Contacts reported little new construction. State Revenues State government contacts reported mixed results in tax collection growth in June. Compared with May, real revenue growth was lower in the District of Columbia, Maryland, and Virginia; steady in North Carolina; and higher in South Carolina and West Virginia. Agriculture District agricultural conditions remained good in recent weeks, although adverse weather hurt crops and poultry in some areas, according to agricultural analysts. Record or new-record yields were reported for small-grain crops. Flooding in Virginia and heavy rain in the Carolinas caused only minor damage to small-grain and tobacco crops in some localities. A more serious impact of the rains, however, was their promotion of blue mold growth on the tobacco crops, especially burley tobacco. On the other hand, recent rainfall benefited the corn, soybean, and hay crops. Above-normal temperatures meanwhile led to higher-than-normal poultry losses, especially along Maryland's Eastern Shore.