Overall business activity in the Third District has continued to grow   modestly since the previous Beige Book, with various sectors experiencing   typical seasonal patterns--positive and negative. Since the last Beige Book,   manufacturing activity has continued to grow modestly with some signs of a   seasonal slowdown. Retail sales overall generally increased for the holiday   season, meeting seasonal expectations. Motor vehicle dealers experienced further   strong sales growth and strong pricing power, overcoming some of the typical   seasonal drag. Third District banks have reported slight growth in loan volume   outstanding since the last Beige Book. New home construction slowed further,   driven by seasonal trends and falling prices for existing homes. Commercial real   estate contacts continued to report slow growth year-over-year, although   anticipated seasonal slowing has been a factor since the last Beige Book.   Service-sector firms reported generally modest growth. Price pressures remained   contained for most sectors, with little change from the last Beige Book.
The general outlook seems to have improved for most firms since the last   Beige Book. Manufacturers anticipate rising shipments and orders during the next   six months. Retailers expect slightly stronger sales, and auto dealers are   increasingly confident that pent-up demand will carry well into the spring   selling season. Banking, real estate, and service-sector firms continue to plan   for slow growth in 2012. Many have voiced concerns over the ongoing lack of a   housing recovery, the threat from Europe's economic woes, and the indecision on   numerous federal budget issues.
Most Third District manufacturers remain split between expecting business   conditions to improve during the next six months and expecting conditions to   stay the same. This overall positive tendency has pervaded more sectors since   the last Beige Book. However, the currently low seasonal demand, cited by many   firms, may be a large factor in the anticipation of near-term gains.   Manufacturing contacts continued to cite weak housing markets as a drag,   Europe's woes as a threat, and rising auto demand as a positive factor.   Expectations of capital spending and future hiring also remain positive but have   moderated since the last Beige Book.
During a seasonally slow period for most nonresidential real estate activity,   contacts have reported no significant changes since the last Beige Book. The   seasonal lull should generate a little pickup in leasing in early 2012. The   sudden announcement in early December of an immediate refinery closing, not   anticipated until early 2012, sent hundreds of workers home, including   construction workers with jobs associated with facility maintenance and repair.   A few weeks later another refinery, currently in the process of restarting,   announced expansion plans. New construction and renovation plans remain mostly   limited to institutional, life sciences, multifamily, and warehousing sectors in   select markets. A portion of the new construction, especially for warehousing,   represents market shifts among regions, rather than net overall market growth.   The overall outlook for demand of nonresidential space is for continued slow   growth.

