The Second District's economy has grown at a somewhat faster pace since the   last report, led by brisk holiday-season spending. Labor market conditions, as   well as prices, have remained generally stable. Manufacturers report modestly   improved general business conditions and steady employment since the last   report, along with increased optimism about the near-term outlook. Retailers   generally characterize holiday season spending as robust, particularly in the   final days before Christmas and right after. Auto dealers report that sales have   remained strong since the last report. Tourism activity has held steady at a   high level. Conditions have generally remained stable in the housing market,   though the rental market has continued to improve. Commercial real estate   markets have been stable to moderately stronger in late 2011. Finally, bankers   report increased loan demand, steady to somewhat tighter credit standards, and   lower delinquency rates across the board.
Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales activity continued to be   robust in November and early December, running well ahead of comparable 2010   levels--particularly for used vehicles. Inventories have risen along with sales   but remain tight for some of the more popular models. Wholesale and retail   credit conditions remain favorable.
Consumer confidence has rebounded from its October lows. The Conference   Board's survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, PA) shows   consumer confidence rising sharply in both November and December, back up to the   levels seen last spring. Results from Siena College's November survey of New   York State residents (latest available) shows consumer confidence rebounding   moderately. Tourism activity has held generally steady at a strong level since   the last report. New York City hotels report that occupancy rates continued to   run at just over 85 percent in November and the first few weeks of December--up   moderately from a year earlier. Room rates were up 2-3 percent from a year   earlier, and total revenues per room were up about 6 percent, though total   revenues in the local hospitality industry are up considerably more due to an   increased number of hotel rooms. On a more negative note, though, Broadway   theaters report that attendance continued to run roughly 5 percent below   year-ago levels in December, while revenues fell below comparable 2010 levels   for the first time since the August hurricane.
Commercial real estate markets have been steady to somewhat stronger since   the last report. New York City's office market has picked up in late 2011, with   office vacancy rates edging down and asking rents rising. There were also modest   signs of improvement in Westchester and Fairfield counties and in the Albany   area, whereas office markets in northern New Jersey and western New York State   appear to have slackened modestly. Industrial leasing markets were generally   steady overall: conditions firmed in Long Island but showed some signs of   softening across upstate New York; in the rest of the District, conditions were   little changed.
Manufacturers across New York State report that general business conditions   improved since the last report, and respondents have grown considerably more   optimistic about the near-term outlook. Both manufacturers and other firms   report that their selling prices remain flat, though a growing number expect to   raise prices in the months ahead. Separately, a contact in the trucking industry   reports that shipping tonnage (volume) has picked up considerably in recent   months and was up 6 percent from a year earlier in November.

