District economic activity generally flattened or improved slightly since our   last report. Manufacturing activity was little changed in late November through   mid December, while port activity slowed. Retail reports were mixed; notably,   several car dealers reported higher sales of used and new vehicles. Non-retail   services firms also reported stronger revenues in recent weeks. In addition,   most tourism contacts indicated bookings were up. In finance, however, loan   demand continued to be weak, with the exception of commercial loans. Likewise,   residential real estate activity generally declined. We received mixed reports   on commercial real estate activity. Manufacturing employment declined somewhat,   while the average workweek ticked up and wages advanced in line with our last   report. Retailers reduced their payrolls and wages flattened, while non-retail   services providers added to their payrolls and average wages increased in that   subsector.
Port activity in the Fifth District slowed in recent weeks, with imports   coming in below earlier expectations. Several officials reported that imports   have turned flat on a year-over-year basis, after modest gains during the summer   had raised hopes of continued improvements through the remainder of the year.   One analyst stated that the typical autumn "bump" in retail orders did not occur   this year. A modest uptick of imports is still expected in January, ahead of   Asian plant closings for the Chinese New Year in February. In contrast, most   port officials expected robust exports, especially for non-container goods. A   late harvest has led to increases in grain exports, according to one official.   Nonetheless, shipping rates are low and carriers are losing money, causing   several analysts to expect increased pressures among carriers to   consolidate.
We received mixed signals from commercial real estate and construction   markets in the District. A contractor in the Baltimore area reported that   commercial permits over the last month were up on a year-over-year basis for the   first time this year. Several contractors in Virginia and Maryland experienced a   small pickup in demand and were hoping to increase their prices. And, while some   architecture firms in the D.C. area had more signs of stress, one firm reported   its best backlog of orders since the recession. In contrast, another D.C.   contractor said that projects in the area were few, and each had many bids that   were too low for most contractors and their subcontractors to make a profit. A   contact in West Virginia noted a dramatic slowdown in local leasing activity. In   addition, a developer in South Carolina stated that office and retail space was   abundant and no new building was needed except for very specialized structures,   such as medical facilities. A commercial Realtor in South Carolina also noted   that, although office vacancy rates were high, a significant portion of those   buildings were obsolete.

