The Ninth District economy grew at a modest pace since the last report. Solid   growth was reported in some areas of consumer spending and in the energy and   mining sectors. Slight to moderate growth was noted in commercial and   residential real estate, professional services, manufacturing, and agriculture.   Activity in the construction sector was down from a year ago, while the   unexpected lack of snowfall dampened tourism. Labor markets showed continued   signs of modest strengthening, while wage increases remained subdued. Prices   generally remained level.
Tourism activity was down. A lack of snow and surprisingly warm weather   stymied snowmobiling, ice fishing, and skiing in many areas. Tourism officials   in Minnesota noted that the lack of snow was affecting businesses that cater to   winter recreation. Low snowfall in Yellowstone National Park was affecting   nearby businesses that offer winter tours of the park on snowmobiles and in   snowcoaches. However, a ski resort in Minnesota reported strong preseason sales;   the number of visits through the end of December was at expected levels. In   western South Dakota, a snowmobiling-related business and a ski resort both have   received calls from a number of people who are ready to visit once more snow   falls.
Commercial real estate market activity increased. According to the   aforementioned University of St. Thomas survey, respondents expected growth in   rents and occupancy but flat rates of return on investment. Industrial real   estate activity increased since the last report, according to a large Minnesota   commercial broker. Home sales in December were up from the same period a year   ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, and the inventory of homes for sale was at   six-year lows; however, prices continued to decline. In the Sioux Falls area,   November new listings were down, sales activity was flat, and prices decreased   from a year ago.
Wage increases were subdued. Several contacts noted small wage increases at   their firms. A Minnesota manufacturer of residential windows reported that its   employees will go without an annual bonus for the third straight year, but the   company also hasn't laid anyone off during those three years.
Prices generally remained level. End-of-December Minnesota gasoline prices   were flat since the last report, and only 18 cents per gallon more than a year   ago. Overall metals prices were level since the last report and lower than a   year ago. A Minnesota-based electronics retailer heavily discounted products at   its stores during the early part of the holiday shopping season. However, a bank   director noted that a number of District manufacturers were planning to raise   prices in 2012.

