Sixth District business contacts described economic activity as expanding at   a modest pace from late November through December. Reports from most sectors   were positive, yet expectations remained guarded. Holiday sales were described   by most retailers as generally positive and the pace of sales was stronger than   last year by most accounts. Auto sales remained strong as well. Tourism-related   spending was solid as international visitors continued to bolster activity.   Weakness persisted in the residential real estate sector as both brokers and   homebuilders continued to report downward pressure on prices for new and   existing homes. Commercial contractors noted a slight improvement in demand   compared with earlier in the year. Most manufacturers and transportation   contacts noted positive activity, especially related to exports. Bankers noted   that deposit growth continued to outpace loan demand. Employment growth was   positive but tepid across the District as employers remained cautious with   regard to hiring. Concerns over increased input costs eased further as most   commodity prices leveled off and business' inflation expectations remained in   check. Few contacts reported having significant pricing power.
Hospitality contacts reported that holiday activity slightly exceeded   cautiously optimistic projections. Occupancy and room rates were up throughout   the District. South Florida in particular experienced greater travel activity   from Canada and South America. Airport traffic remained above year-ago levels in   most major District cities with international travelers helping boost overall   arrivals in many Florida destinations. Cruise line reservations remained solid   into the first quarter of 2012 as international passengers took advantage of   deals. Business travel improved over year-ago levels, although reservations were   being made closer to departure dates.
Reports from District homebuilders indicated that new home sales and   construction activity growth, measured year-over-year, were flat to slightly up.   Builders also continued to report downward pressure on home prices with most   reporting that prices were flat or down on a year-over-year basis, in spite of   inventories that remained below year-earlier levels. Builders indicated a strong   pickup in buyer traffic compared with the same time period as last year.   Homebuilders anticipate new home sales and construction to improve modestly in   the coming year.
The majority of District commercial real estate contacts continued to report   improving demand from earlier in the year. Brokers indicated modest improvements   in demand for space with some noting that rent concessions had abated.   Contractors continued to report improvements in construction activity from   earlier in the year. However, financing remained challenging and most projects   were build-to-suit. The outlook among contacts improved modestly from early   November with most contractors and commercial real estate brokers anticipating   that construction activity will improve slowly during 2012.
Reports from transportation industry contacts remained positive in late   November and December. Port authorities cited volume increases over last year   with notable strength in exports. Trucking firms continued to report increased   demand for their services but were struggling to meet customer needs because of   a significant shortage of long-haul drivers.
Availability of credit/capital was not an issue for most large firms because   of positive cash flow, adequate cash reserves, or a strong, long-standing   relationship with their bank. Small business contacts, however, continued to   report difficulty in obtaining credit from banks and some have turned to   non-bank institutions for financing.
Contacts were generally not as concerned with input costs as they had been in   previous months, noting that commodity prices had leveled off or eased somewhat.   Notable exceptions included reports of restaurants facing elevated food costs   and ongoing price pressures from high transportation and shipping costs. Many   businesses reported slightly improved margins in late November and December.   However, with the exception of high-end apparel retailers and hospitality   contacts, firms reported having little pricing power.
In the Atlanta Fed's monthly business inflation survey of firms in the Sixth   Federal Reserve District, respondents indicated in December that their inflation   expectations for the coming year are 1.9 percent, down slightly from November.   Looking forward, businesses indicated that costs for materials and labor may   influence them to raise prices. Respondents did not expect changes in   productivity, sales, or margin adjustments to have a significant influence on   prices over the coming year.
While much of the District witnessed various degrees of drought ranging from   "abnormally dry" to "exceptional" in late November and December, both Georgia   and Louisiana experienced the most severe conditions. Demand for cotton was flat   as a result of global economic concerns and competition from synthetic fibers.   Prices for cattle and hogs continued to increase because of strong foreign   demand. Several regional agritourism contacts noted plans to expand next   year.
