Most business contacts in the First District report modest revenue growth   from a year earlier. Retailers are somewhat more positive than in preceding   months, with 2011 sales projected to come in higher than 2010. Manufacturers'   reports are similar to the last round; most firms cite somewhat slower sales   growth than earlier in the year, while a couple of semiconductor-related firms   saw sales fall off (they believe temporarily). Commercial and residential real   estate markets remain weak, but are not expected to deteriorate further.   Advertising and consulting firms, by contrast, say business improved noticeably   between the third and the fourth quarters, bringing a strong 2011 to a close.   Some firms are hiring, but modestly; wage increases, if occurring, remain   moderate. Price pressures continue to ease. Most contacts expect a continuation   of current modest growth trends, notwithstanding uncertainties related to Europe   and U.S. budget deliberations.
The travel and tourism sector continues to project a 5 percent to 8 percent   increase for 2011 over 2010. Data from the first week of December show strong   performance. The industry foresees a robust 2012, taking heart from Q1   projections based on advance bookings. Preliminary predictions are that 2012   hotel revenue per available room will increase 10 percent to 12 percent over   2011. Restaurant sales, while much harder to project, are estimated to grow 3   percent in 2012 over 2011, an improvement over the 1.5 percent estimated for   2011 over 2010.
Of the 13 manufacturing contacts in this cycle, nine report higher sales, two   cite flat sales and two declining sales. The two firms with falls in sales are   in the semiconductor business and both depend heavily on Asia for demand. Of   these two, a manufacturer of analog semiconductors says orders peaked in the   June quarter and bottomed out in September; since sales follow orders with a   lag, sales declined in the fourth quarter, ending an 11-quarter streak of   quarter-on-quarter sales growth. The two contacts differ on the source of the   problem, with one attributing it to China-specific issues and the other arguing   that the underlying causes are broad-based.
For contacts reporting higher sales, growth recently is moderate compared to   the rapid growth they experienced in the last few years. One firm said that   while sales were likely to be up about 15 percent for the year, the fourth   quarter would clock in at only about 5 percent. Europe is cited as a problem,   although two contacts say that they have yet to see evidence of a recession in   northern Europe. One contact at a medical equipment supplier says that debt   problems in Europe do not appear to have affected the health care sector;   another contact at a large diversified manufacturing firm argues that there is   an incipient credit crunch in Europe.
On pricing, the complaints about escalating input prices have more or less   stopped; contacts say even food prices have ceased rising. A year ago, virtually   every contact talked about high commodity prices and, in some cases, shortages,   but now the only comments relate to limited pricing pressure.
Five contacts report that they are hiring, eight report flat to maybe a small   decline and none reports any significant staff reductions. Several contacts   mention that they are having trouble finding qualified staff, but some have come   up with more creative ways to bring in the right people. Firms continue to   devote resources to capital expenditures. None reports any problems raising   money to pay for needed investment and, in fact, many are able to finance all   capital spending with retained earnings.
The outlook remains guarded; general concerns about "macroeconomic   uncertainty" remain. The two firms reporting lower sales are fairly optimistic   that the dip is transitory. In general, firms with greater exposure to Europe   are more concerned than firms focused on the domestic market.
The majority of consulting and advertising contacts reports minimal increases   in the prices they charge, held down by both competitive pressures and modest   cost increases. Compensation increases are generally in the mid single digits   and contacts report steady or growing profit margins. By exception, two contacts   raised prices by 5 percent to 10 percent because of strong demand for their   services.
Hiring activity continues to be mixed. Two consulting contacts report strong   2011 employment growth, while three firms kept employment flat and one continued   a year-long downsizing process. The two firms reporting job growth expect hiring   to remain strong (about 10 percent) in 2012, while a marketing firm plans to   increase employment modestly, and the other firms expect flat 2012 employment.   Firms that increased employment did so to keep up with a growing workload, while   firms downsizing in the third or fourth quarter emphasized cost controls.
All respondents are more optimistic now than when contacted in the third   quarter, with the exception of one firm that has done exceptionally well all   year. The improved outlook is mostly due to the strong fourth quarter indicating   that the third quarter was only a temporary rough patch.
Construction activity remains limited across the region, with the ongoing   exception of multifamily construction in greater Boston. The lack of speculative   office construction is attributed to the fact that building costs continue to   exceed expected rents. The investment sales market remains active in Boston as   prices signal an ongoing willingness of buyers to accept low rates of return for   prime properties. A Portland contact predicts an increase in sales activity in   that market in the coming months as borrowers seek to take advantage of very low   mortgage interest rates.
The outlook among contacts is unchanged since the last report, with forecasts   calling for modest improvements in office fundamentals in 2012, roughly on par   with the experience of 2011. While some see upside potential in office rents,   downside risks are also noted, such as possible closures in the retail sector   and ongoing political gridlock.
The outlook remains largely the same as in previous reports. Contacts expect   sales activity to remain slow in the coming months, but believe prices will   stabilize in the region. They do not expect further weakening in the market but   also do not anticipate significant recovery in the near term.
