The economy in the Fourth District grew at a slow pace during the past six   weeks. Manufacturers reported that new orders and production were stable.   Single-family home construction improved slightly, while nonresidential builders   saw a drop-off in inquiries and weak backlogs. November retail and motor vehicle   sales were little changed from the prior month. Activity in shale gas drilling   and production expanded. Freight transport volume slowed along seasonal trends.   The demand for credit by businesses and households was characterized as either   steady or increasing slightly.
Labor market reports indicated that hiring remains at a low level, while   recruiting high-skilled workers was difficult. Staffing-firm representatives saw   growth in the number of new job openings, with vacancies concentrated in   healthcare and energy. Wage pressures were largely contained. Other than a boost   in steel prices, upward pressure on raw material prices has abated.
Capacity utilization was below normal at most factories, while steel   producers saw their utilization rates at or near normal levels. Inventories were   in line with sales for the majority of our contacts. Manufacturers told us that   their capital outlays have reached targeted levels for the year. Only a few   respondents indicated that they expect to significantly raise their capital   budgets for 2012. Other than steel, raw material prices were steady during the   past few weeks. We heard several reports about steel producers raising their   prices and the possibility of a second round of increases early in 2012. New   hiring remained at a low level. Those adding to payrolls found it difficult to   recruit professional and high-skilled production workers. Wage pressures are   contained.
Activity in nonresidential construction for small to medium-size builders was   steady, although the number of inquiries has fallen off during the past few   weeks. The biggest challenges facing nonresidential contractors continue to be   financing projects and adding to backlog. Construction contracts were primarily   with manufacturers and health-care providers. Builders are uncertain about   future prospects. One contractor noted that he does not expect a major pick-up   through at least the first half of 2012. On balance, building material prices   were stable. The number of reports about sub contractors going out of businesses   rose, while general contracting payrolls showed a slight decline.
Auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sales during November remained strong.   On a year-over-year basis, sales volume was largely higher. Dealers saw robust   demand for all vehicle types. A few dealers noted that their inventories are now   adequate. Others said that inventories are low, which they attributed to brisk   sales. The outlook for 2012 is somewhat tentative, mainly because of   uncertainty. Purchases of used vehicles have fallen off slightly, due in part to   a supply shortage. We heard reports about some easing of credit restrictions,   while interest rates were very competitive. Dealers are investing in   manufacturer-mandated facility upgrades and imaging programs. The few dealers   looking to hire reported that it is difficult to find qualified candidates,   especially sales representatives and service technicians.
