Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and   based on information collected on or before December 30, 2011. This document   summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside the   Federal Reserve System and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve   officials.
Contact reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest that   national economic activity expanded at a modest to moderate pace during the   reporting period of late November through the end of December. Seven Districts   characterized growth as modest; of the remaining five, New York and Chicago   noted a pickup in the pace of growth, Dallas and San Francisco reported moderate   growth, and Richmond indicated that activity flattened or improved slightly.   Compared with prior summaries, the reports on balance suggest ongoing   improvement in economic conditions in recent months, with most Districts   highlighting more favorable conditions than identified in reports from the late   spring through early fall.
Consumer spending picked up in most Districts, reflecting significant gains   in holiday retail sales compared with last year's season, and activity in the   travel and tourism sector expanded in most areas. Demand strengthened further   for nonfinancial services, including professional and transportation services.   Manufacturing activity generally continued to expand, although the pace of   growth has slowed for selected subsectors such as technology products.   Agricultural producers and extractors of natural resources reported generally   robust conditions. Activity stayed sluggish in residential real estate markets,   and conditions in commercial real estate markets remained somewhat soft overall   but showed signs of ongoing improvement in several Districts. Reports from   financial institutions generally indicated a slight uptick in loan demand by   businesses, along with improvements in overall credit quality.
Upward price pressures and price increases remained quite limited for most   categories of final goods and services, as the effects of prior increases in the   costs of selected inputs have eased. Upward wage pressures were modest overall,   although a few Districts noted substantial compensation increases for workers   with specialized skills in selected sectors and regions.
Reports from most Districts pointed to solid gains or high levels of travel   and tourist activity, with pickups evident in both the business and leisure   segments. Tourism activity was reported to be above the levels from twelve   months earlier by Boston, New York, Richmond, and Atlanta, and Boston contacts   expect double-digit growth in hotel revenues in 2012. By contrast, Minneapolis   reported that tourist activity was down because limited snowfall has stymied   outdoor activities such as skiing and snowmobiling, while Kansas City reported a   decline because winter storms hampered some tourist activity. Business travel   activity also has expanded of late and is above levels from twelve months   earlier, according to Atlanta and San Francisco.
Cleveland reported that capacity utilization remained below normal in most   subsectors, with the notable exception of steel producers, who were operating at   or near normal levels. Similarly, Chicago noted that some auto suppliers appear   to be approaching capacity constraints, which may limit further production   increases in the near term. Atlanta reported that recent flooding in Thailand   was likely to exert modest restraint on auto production. Ongoing capital   investments and increases in capacity were reported for various manufacturing   concerns in the St. Louis and Minneapolis Districts and for an auto producer in   the Richmond District.
Demand for nonresidential real estate remained somewhat soft overall but   improved in a number of Districts. Vacancy rates and other indicators in markets   for office space were largely unchanged in the major metropolitan markets in the   Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and St. Louis Districts. By contrast,   New York reported that demand for office space "picked up in late 2011," causing   vacancy rates to edge down and asking rents to rise. Minneapolis, Kansas City,   Dallas, San Francisco, Atlanta, and Chicago all reported stronger demand for   commercial real estate compared with earlier in 2011, and the latter two   Districts also noted a pickup in nonresidential construction activity. Cleveland   and Chicago reported that the strongest demand and most extensive construction   activity has been for industrial and health-care facilities, while Minneapolis   highlighted growing demand for industrial space and San Francisco stressed   growing demand emanating from the information technology sector.
Lending standards were largely unchanged across all lending categories.   However, New York reported slight tightening for commercial and industrial   loans. Moreover, a few reports highlighted that small businesses continued to   struggle with credit access through banks. In the Atlanta District, some small   businesses have turned to nonbank institutions for financing, and in the Chicago   District some manufacturers have been financing loans to their suppliers from   retained earnings. Credit quality improved in many Districts: New York reported   a decline in delinquency rates for all loan categories, while Philadelphia,   Richmond, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco all reported general   improvement in loan quality.
Demand and extraction activity rose further for producers of natural resource   products. Energy extraction has been on the upswing. Atlanta reported that   companies have been expanding their workforces and increasing their production   capacity and exploration plans in the Gulf of Mexico. Minneapolis and Kansas   City reported that oil and gas exploration and extraction activity were well   above their levels from twelve months earlier, and Dallas noted that a high   level of activity is expected to resume in early 2012 following a year-end   seasonal lull. Minneapolis and San Francisco reported expansion of mining   capacity and activity for a range of industrial and precious metals.
Wage pressures remained modest overall. The combination of limited permanent   hiring in most sectors and numerous active job seekers has continued to keep a   lid on general wage increases. However, reports from a few Districts highlighted   significant supply constraints and in some cases large compensation increases   for workers with specialized skills in selected sectors, including the energy   sector in the Dallas District and the technology sector in the San Francisco   District. On a related note, Minneapolis reported that employers have increased   relocation pay for employees willing to settle in parts of that District where   worker availability is limited. Increases in the costs of employee health   benefits continued to put significant upward pressure on overall compensation   costs, although some employers in the Philadelphia District reported significant   rollbacks from past increases.
