Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to grow at a moderate   pace during the reporting period of late November through the end of December.   Upward price pressures remained very modest overall, and upward wage pressures   were quite limited. Holiday retail sales reportedly were up over last year's   season, and demand edged up for business and consumer services. District   manufacturing activity grew further on net. Production activity and sales   remained robust for agricultural producers and rose a bit further for providers   of energy resources. Activity in District housing markets stayed at very low   levels, and demand for nonresidential real estate generally was weak. Reports   from financial institutions indicated a slight increase in business loan   demand.
Contacts in most sectors reported that upward wage pressure were modest,   although they continued to note rising costs for employee health benefits.   Elevated unemployment rates and limited hiring kept compensation gains modest   across most regions and sectors, with the exception of significant wage   increases for workers with specialized skills in selected manufacturing and   technology sectors. Looking ahead, most businesses expect little change in the   pace of hiring and wage gains next year.
Demand for business and consumer services was mixed but appeared to expand   slightly on net. Demand for transportation services remained largely flat, as   did demand for professional services such as legal services and accounting.   Sales were largely stable on a seasonal basis for restaurants and other   food-service providers. For providers of health-care services, demand softened a   bit further, as higher emergency room visits were more than offset by declines   in inpatient admissions and surgeries. By contrast, sales continued to expand   for providers of technology services to businesses and consumers, although the   pace of growth continued to slow. District travel activity picked up further,   with additional growth in demand reported for the tourism and business segments   of the market alike.

