Overview The Sixth District economy continued to expand in September and early October, although most business contacts characterized recent growth as sluggish. After gaining momentum through the first half of the year, consumer spending has leveled off in recent months. New orders for manufactured goods improved slightly in September, but current production and employment levels generally remained flat. Residential real estate sales and construction have remained a source of strength for the District economy, and commercial construction has shown signs that it is beginning to revive. Although residential mortgage lending has remained strong, consumer lending for automobile purchases has slowed recently. Commercial loan demand has not improved. Wages and prices generally were reported to be stable, although some construction and manufacturing firms noted that lumber prices have been edging higher. Consumer Spending According to southeastern retailers, consumer spending has leveled off in the last few months following relatively strong growth during the first half of the year. Unseasonably warm weather through September and early October was cited as a factor contributing to below expectation fall apparel sales, while continued strength in residential real estate markets has maintained demand for furniture and other home furnishings at levels me in the spring. Despite recent sluggishness, most retailers again said they were optimistic that upcoming holiday sales will modestly surpass the healthy levels of 1992. Auto sales, while higher on a year-over-year basis, have slowed from their torrid mid-summer pace. Dealers noted that sales of new model-year cars have been slightly below expectations. Tourism, recreation, and convention-related activity has been mixed in the District. In south Florida, contacts attributed year-over- year declines in hotel occupancy levels and convention attendance to a combination of the slow economy, high airfares, and the spate of publicity about criminal activity. On the other hand, tourism along the Gulf Coast of Mississippi has continued to benefit from increased activity generated by new casino operations. Manufacturing Reports from industry contacts were mixed in September, but, in general, manufacturing production and employment levels were little changed from August. Several contacts reported, however, that new orders were up slightly and that the new-term prospects for their firms have improved. Most manufacturers reported that they do not expect to hire new employees in the next six months. In contrast, contacts with temporary employment agencies indicated that staffing for manufacturing firms has begun to pick up during the last two months following a mid-summer lull. Among those firms that indicated an improvement in current business activity, producers of medical equipment and supplies reported increases in production and shipments for the month of September, and companies producing automotive supplies and commercial construction materials also noted increases in production. Although employment in the carpet industry remained stable since the last Beigebook, apparel plants in Mississippi and Georgia continued to pare back their employment rolls in response to sluggish retail sales and stiff foreign competition. Weak demand from foreign markets was reported to be holding back production in Louisiana's chemical industry, and several paper producers reported cuts in production from mid-summer levels. Construction After a busy summer selling period, Sixth District realtors reported an expected seasonal downturn in September and early October. Home sales year-to-date, however, are well ahead of last year's levels, and real estate agents were optimistic that there would be another surge in sales before the end of this year. Demand for new homes, especially starter and mid-priced homes, remained strong, and contacts in some areas noted that luxury home sales have improved as well. Home builders also reported a seasonal slowing in sales in September, but several contacts noted that this would allow them to replenish their nearly depleted inventories of new homes. While commercial and multifamily real estate activity generally has remained slow, reports from industry contacts continued to suggest that these markets are beginning to revive. Several small speculative office and industrial projects have been announced recently in submarkets where available space has been reduced through absorption. Multifamily construction a1so has been improving slowly, and several contacts noted that the permanent extension of the low-income housing tax credit could stimulate new building activity. Financial Services Bankers reported that loan demand generally was flat in September and early October. Although residential mortgage lending has remained strong at most banks, refinancings continued to make up about three-quarters of all mortgage loans. Consumer lending for automobile purchases has slowed since the summer, and commercial loan demand has remained muted throughout the District. Agriculture Reports indicated that severe drought conditions persist in central and south Georgia. According to current estimates, total agricultural losses in Georgia are expected to surpass $500 million. In Alabama, Tennessee, and Florida, crop yields are expected to be reduced by 5 to 20 percent as a result of the drought, although total losses in these states are not expected to approach those in Georgia. While Mississippi and Louisiana enjoyed excellent weather until late in the growing season, a lack of rain in late August and September has reduced yields on most major crops, including cotton and soybeans. Wages and Prices There were no reports of increased wage pressures in September and early October. Construction companies and furniture manufacturers, however, noted that lumber prices have been edging higher since early August.