Summary Economic activity is reported generally improving across much of the Twelfth District, but California's economy remains sluggish. Relatively weak conditions also are reported in western Washington, affected by retrenchment in aerospace, and Hawaii, undergoing a slump in the visitor industry. In contrast, conditions are strong in eastern Washington, Utah, Idaho, and Nevada, and favorable conditions are reported in Oregon and Arizona. In California, weakness continues in aerospace and defense-related manufacturing and construction. Some improvement is reported, however, in California's electronics and retail trade sectors, and continued strength is reported in sectors such as motion pictures and agriculture. While contacts in California indicate more positive signs than in previous reports, the overall picture remains weak, particularly in the south. Business Sentiment Sentiment among Twelfth District business leaders shows some improvement from our August report. About two-thirds of the respondents expect the real economy to expand during the next four quarters at a rate at or above trend growth. This proportion is up from one-half in August and July, and returns to the proportion seen in early 1993. Most other respondents expect the economy to expand, but at a rate below trend. Several contacts report that capital spending and hiring plans are being delayed due to uncertainty regarding medical costs. Lower interest rates are reported to have done little to change capital spending plans in recent months. Retail Trade and Services Retail activity is reported generally improving. One large District retailer reports that October sales have been stronger than August and September, with earnings strong and inventories coming down. The same contact reports "no inflation on the horizon" in its cost structure. Another major retailer also reports slightly better sales in October, especially in California. The retailer reports that activity in Utah remains quite strong, but that it is still soft in Washington. Demand for autos and consumer durables is reported strong by contacts in several areas, in part due to lower interest rates. Auto dealers in Idaho report product shortages. Conditions in service-related industries are mixed. Contacts report high-end restaurant closings in southern California. A contact in telecommunications reports especially weak conditions in southern California. The motion picture industry, however, remains strong. Outside of California, most service-producing sectors are doing well. However, cutbacks in government are reported in several states, and visitor industry conditions remain weak in Hawaii. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity is mixed in the District, with weakness centered is aerospace and defense-related industries. Cutbacks in these industries are reported continuing in Arizona, California, Utah, and Washington. Some announced aerospace layoffs in Washington, however, have been deferred until next year. Other manufacturing industries show signs of improvement. In southern California, demand for transportation equipment is expanding due to light rail projects and new bus orders. High-tech industries are reported improving in Oregon and Washington. In Idaho and Utah, production of computers, semiconductor chips, and software is reported strong. A contact in northern California reports strong demand for electronics, and double-digit growth in components of communications equipment. Medical electronics, however, is reported weak due to the uncertainty of health care reform. Furthermore, strong final demand in electronics is not being reflected in increased hiring. Agriculture Most contacts report a generally favorable outlook for agriculture. Contacts report that the livestock industry is doing well, despite some recent lower prices for and feeder cattle. Grain prices are reported somewhat higher. In California, acreage is up because the end of the drought has increased water supplies. In the Pacific Northwest forestry industry, volume is reported down due to public harvesting restrictions, but profits are reported up for private owners of timber. A contact in Idaho agriculture reports strong conditions for vegetables, fruits, and cattle, but some weakening in aquaculture, fishing, and seafood. Construction and Real Estate District construction us real estate markets are mixed. Housing starts, housing sales, and commercial real estate activity are reported soft in southern California. Prices in high-end residential areas are reported down 30 to 40 percent from peak levels, and medium-range housing is reported down 15 to 20 percent. Contacts in northern and central California also report depressed conditions in most real estate sectors. Low interest rates, however, are reported to have stimulated some low-end housing construction in California. Publicly-funded heavy construction also has fared relatively well during the state's downturn. A contact from Tucson reports strong sales of existing homes, strong new construction, and low vacancy rates for apartments. Contacts expect construction conditions in Oregon and Alaska to strengthen over the next year. In Oregon, construction conditions are tight with shortages reported for labor and supplies. Conditions in Utah and Idaho remain strong. Financial Institutions Varied conditions are reported across District financial markets. In California, loan volume is reported flat and additional layoffs were announced by financial institutions due to recent consolidation. Stronger conditions are reported elsewhere. For example, in Oregon, banking conditions remain strong, with deposits and loans reported up and loan delinquencies reported down. A contact from Utah reports that lower interest rates have led to considerable corporate refinancing, but have not stimulated new loan demand and new investment spending. Contacts in several areas report that mortgage refinancing activity is increasing again.