Overview Most sectors unproved during the survey period. Manufacturing grew after a flat trend lasting many months. Tourism, finance, and real estate saw growth, and agriculture was recovering from the summer drought. Retailing was down slightly, tough automobile sales were up in some areas. Port activity was mixed. Consumer Spending Evidence on retail trends was mixed. Our regular mail survey indicated that retail activity declined slightly in late September/early October. Respondents reported that sales and employment fell, while prices and wages rose. All other indicators changed little. Survey respondents were optimistic about their prospects for the next six months and expected increases in every indicator. Other District contacts reported growth in some categories, particularly automobiles. Manufacturing Our regular mail survey of manufacturers indicated that District factory activity improved in late September/early October, the first time respondents reported improvement since January/February 1993. Manufacturers saw increased levels of shipments, employee hours, capital expenditures, and new orders. Order backlogs and the number of employees changed little. Manufacturing prices increased no faster than the general level of inflation. Manufacturers remained optimistic about prospects for production and capital expenditures for the next six months. They expected employment to remain steady and manufacturing prices to increase no faster than general prices. Ports Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that exports were generally higher in August than in July, while imports were mixed. Compared with a year ago, imports were generally higher, and exports were lower. Both exports and imports were expected to grow at all three ports in the next six months. Charleston and Hampton Roads expected exports to increase faster, while Baltimore expected more growth in imports. Tourism Hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity for September and the first three weeks of October increased when compared to August and to a year ago. The respondents attributed the improvement to good weather and an increase in convention bookings. All of the respondents noted that fall bookings increased compared to a year ago. Most of the respondents expected tourist activity to continue to improve during the next six months. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that credit conditions strengthened slightly during the last six weeks. Respondents stated that commercial and consumer loan demands were marginally higher. Commercial loan rates were flat, while consumer rates fell slightly. Residential mortgage demand increased during the last six weeks Refinancing activity rose, while mortgage originations were steady. Residential mortgage lending rates were moderately lower. Residential Real Estate Real estate analysts and homebuilders surveyed by telephone reported that sales strengthened somewhat in most areas of the District. Starts trended upward, while home prices remained mostly steady. Analysts noted a particularly large increase in activity in Northern Virginia. In Charleston, South Carolina, the lower-end market remained flat because of the announced closing of the naval base, while the resort/retirement market continued to strengthen. Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate activity improved slightly throughout the District during the past two months. Vacancy rates edged downward because of the absorption of existing space. Analysts reported little new construction, and virtually all new space was pre-leased. Effective rental rates rose slightly at office space tightened and as large discount retailers continued to expand substantially. State Tax Revenues State government revenues suggested moderate real growth (2 to 3 1/2 percent) in North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia. Real revenue growth was less robust in Maryland, though there were some areas of improvement, particularly in retail collections. Real revenue growth remained flat to negative in the District of Columbia. Agriculture Agricultural conditions improved tightly in the last six weeks. Cool temperatures and normal rainfall in recent weeks improved the District's pastures and hay crop. The fall harvest progressed at a normal pace with the yields on most crops far below average, but within the ranges forecast by agricultural analysts late in the summer. An exception was tobacco, whose yields were better than expected. Fall planting of winter grains began, but only 5 to 10 percent of the crop had been sown.