Summary Economic activity in the region picked up renewed momentum in September and October, although gains in most sectors were modest. Manufacturing output strengthened considerably, with most of the improvement centered in the auto industry. Retail sales and housing activity continued to grow, and retailers' expectations for the holiday season were largely consistent with those reported around mid-year. After losing some momentum earlier in the year, the employment recovery in the District has been bolstered by the recent revival in industrial activity. The fall harvest has proceeded at a slower-than-normal pace, and yields on corn are proving to be lower than earlier anticipated. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity strengthened in September and October, after stalling out to a greater extent than usual during the summer months. The production component of the Chicago purchasing managers' survey fell off modestly in October, but only after surging in September, and the overall index continued to climb following an evident loss of momentum in the previous three months. Surveys conducted in Detroit, Western Michigan, and Milwaukee also depicted higher output growth in recent months, with auto industry respondents accounting for much of the improvement. A large auto supplier expected shipment gains to climb higher in the fourth quarter and into the first quarter of 1994, particularly as OEM and dealer inventories are "fairly skinny for this time of the year." Production problems at a large OEM customer are lingering but are expected to be largely resolved by the first quarter of 1994. A manufacturer of heavy-duty trucks reported some modest weakening in orders in September, but wasn't overly concerned in light of sizable gains earlier in the year. This firm expected orders to remain fairly steady at high levels into early 1994. Two large capital goods manufacturers reported substantial year-over-year sales gains in the third quarter, although sales actually declined on a seasonally adjusted basis for one of these firms. Exporters in a variety of industries reported further declines in European markets, with one auto supplier describing output there as "completely in the tank." Several of these firms noted that an increasing number of European producers are pricing more aggressively in order to get orders from the United States. A manufacturer of semiconductors reported continuing sales gains in Europe, however, and this firm's domestic orders growth remained at high levels in recent months. A manufacturer of housewares reported substantially higher third quarter earnings, and noted continued strengthening in orders during the early stages of the fourth quarter. Consumer Spending/Housing Growth in retail sales and housing activity held up well compared to manufacturing output during the summer, and little change in consumption growth was evident in reports from District contacts in recent weeks. Two large chains reported that their holiday season hiring plans were in line with, or slightly stronger than, those at the same time last year. A large discount retailer reported slow, steady improvement in sales growth in this region, after its sales gains had lagged the industry average earlier in the year. This firm continued to report little generalized upward pressure on prices. A large general merchandise chain concentrated in District markets described sales as "pretty hard to get." Sales growth slowed earlier in the year, and in recent months comparable store sales have been flat on a year-over-year basis. This firm is still expecting a good holiday season, but it has not raised inventory plans after a reduction at mid-year. Discussions with a number of retailers in Michigan indicated that growth in apparel sales picked up in recent months, after slowing materially during the summer. An auto industry contact reported that sales closure rates have remained relatively flat during recent months, after rising during most of 1993. This contact expected lower sales than the consensus in 1994, citing lower expectation for pent-up demand and a ceiling on the potential that leasing holds for future growth. Another auto industry observer stated that sales this year have benefited from a stronger trade-in market, after trade-ins were dampened in 1991 and 1992 by the extension of auto loan maturities in the late 1980s. However, this analyst expected only a marginal further boost from this effect in 1994. A large association of homebuilders reported that gains in sales of new homes in October were running in line with the substantial increases recorded year-to-date. Citing further strength in customer traffic, this contact expected sales and starts to continue to gain momentum on a seasonally adjusted basis over coming months. Construction of individual custom homes has accounted for an above- average share of the gains in the overall market this year, according to this contact. An October survey of homebuilders indicated substantial strengthening in sales expectations One of the largest realtors in the District reported that sales in September were in line with an exceptionally strong year-earlier period, and this contact stated that the residential market remains very active for this time of year. A regional bank holding company reported that the rapid pace of residential mortgage refinancing was little changed, while demand for bank loans for new home construction is "okay, but nothing to write home about." Another banker stated that borrowers' savings from home mortgage refinancing remain targeted toward reducing the maturity of the mortgage, rather than the monthly payment, although an increasing share of younger borrowers seems to be using the savings to lower their monthly payment. Employment Stronger business activity in September and October helped to shore up labor markets in the region, after the pace of the District employment recovery slowed in the second and third quarters. Payroll survey estimates for the District states show a weaker pattern in 1993 than they did for the comparable period last year. A survey by a large temporary help company indicated that hiring plans among Midwest businesses ebbed during the second and third quarters on a seasonally adjusted basis, after surging in the latter half of 1992 and early 1993. While a majority of respondents still planned to increase their employment levels, hiring plans among Midwest businesses no longer exceeded the national average in the most recent survey. A survey of small businesses in Wisconsin showed a dropoff in hiring expectations, and a substantial majority of small firms in a Michigan survey indicated that regulatory uncertainty was prompting them to defer some hiring. District contacts were not entirely downbeat, however. A variety of personnel recruiting firms reported increased rates in recent weeks, although one contact expressed concern whether the strengthening would prove to be another in a series of false starts. A firm specializing in the placement of industrial engineers stated that employers are increasingly expecting health care reform to be a prolonged process, and that the related uncertainty was not so serious a hiring constraint as it had been earlier in the year. After declining in the second and third quarters, the employment component of purchasing managers' surveys in the District improved in September and October. An association of metalworking companies reported a growing shortage of skilled labor during a pickup in production in recent months. Agriculture The soybean harvest in District states is progressing well, but the corn harvest remains considerably slower than normal. Various reports tend to suggest that the flood-related crop losses were somewhat greater than earlier estimates indicated, especially for corn. A large, last-minute enrollment in the 0/92 option of the price support program resulted in more abandonment of corn acreage than had been estimated earlier. Moreover, yields on the acreage that will be harvested are proving so be somewhat less than expected, in part because of frosts that hit northern portions of the District in late September and early October.