Overview Moderate growth continues across most of the Tenth District economy. Retail sales are increasing and housing activity is strengthening. Demand is up for business loans, consumer loans, and home mortgages. Cattle feeders and ranchers have enjoyed several months of solid profits. While manufacturers' input prices are rising somewhat, retail prices are generally holding steady. Retail Sales Most district retailers report stronger sales, compared with both a year ago and a month ago. Retailers generally expect further sales increases in the next few months, and about half intend to increase inventories over that period. Retail prices are generally holding steady and are not expected to change much in the months ahead, as they are restrained by vigorous competition. Auto dealers report increased sales last month. Financing is available for dealers and buyers. Inventories are low, but dealers are adding stocks of 1994 cars due to their optimistic outlook for sales. Manufacturing Most purchasing agents report that input prices are somewhat higher than a year ago and up from a month ago. In the near term modest price increases are expected to continue. Materials are readily available, and purchasing agents expect no availability problems for the rest of the year. Most agents say their inventories are too high and are being trimmed. Export sales are expected to remain steady for the rest of the year. Energy Drilling for natural gas and oil continues to pick up across most of the district. All district energy-producing states report recent increases in drilling activity except Wyoming, where the number of active rigs edged down in the first part of October. Overall, the average number of operating rigs in district states climbed from 264 in August to 284 in September and 297 in the first three weeks of October. Despite these recent increases, the average rig count stands only about 3 percent higher than one year ago. Housing Housing starts remain higher than a year ago despite a slight weather-induced decrease last month. Over the rest of the year, builders expect starts to rise. Sales of new homes are steady or slightly higher than a year ago, and the inventory of unsold homes is low. Higher lumber prices have contributed to higher prices for new homes. Builders expect further price increases for lumber in the coming months. Demand for mortgage funds remains strong as borrowers refinance and low rates persist. Mortgage rates are expected to be steady to slightly lower in the near term, and are expected to firm slightly next year. Banking Loan demand over the last month was steady to somewhat stronger at district banks. Most respondents experienced greater demand for commercial and industrial loans, consumer loans, and home mortgages. Demand was steady to somewhat stronger for home equity loans, residential construction loans, and commercial real estate loans. Demand for agricultural loans was mixed. Survey respondents reported loan-deposit ratios were unchanged to slightly higher over the last month. None of the respondents changed their prime rate last month, and only one expected to change it in the near term. While a few banks lowered consumer loan rates, most had not; and few expected to change rates in the near future. All respondents reported no change in their other lending standards. Deposit flows were mixed over the last month. Roughly equal numbers of respondents reported an increase, decrease, and no change in deposits. Demand deposits, NOW accounts, and money market deposit accounts are steady to higher at most responding banks. Large CDs, IRAs, and Keogh accounts were mostly unchanged over the last month, while all time and savings deposits were steady to somewhat lower. Agriculture The district's fall harvest is now in full swing after a late start caused by wet fields. Last summer's wet weather and flooding destroyed corn and soybean crops planted in low-lying areas along the Missouri River and its tributaries in Missouri, Kansas, and Nebraska. But bankers report normal yields in other parts of the district. Cotton and peanut yields in Oklahoma and New Mexico are generally above normal. The district's next winter wheat crop is off to a good start. Planting is almost finished, and favorable growing conditions have bolstered the crop's early development. The new winter wheat fields are providing excellent forage for district cattle herds. Hay and other sources of forage are also in ample supply in the district. Despite several months of solid profits, district cattle feeders and ranchers are wary about expanding herds after a recent downturn in fed cattle prices. Similarly, bankers see little expansion underway in district hog production, despite continued strength in hog prices. Many district bankers report an uptick in nonfarm business activity in their communities, although some communities continue to struggle. Overall, most rural bankers in the district are optimistic about business conditions in their communities.