Summary Reports on business activity in the District generally indicate solid expansion into the second half of 1988, though the rate of rise in activity appears to be less rapid than in the first half. Upward pressures on prices continue. Manufacturers in this region have been helped greatly by the strengthening in demand for capital equipment. Better-than-expected consumer spending for motor vehicles continues to support upward-revised production plans at plants in the District. Sales of major appliances have stayed near last year's record pace. Construction activity, in the aggregate, appears to be slowing. The drought has adversely affected the farm sector and some nonagricultural industries but boosted activity in a few other industries. Labor Markets Employment growth in the District states through this year's first half was somewhat slower than the nation in part reflecting first quarter layoffs at auto assembly and parts plants. Unemployment has been below 5 percent of the labor force in Indiana and near 4 percent in Iowa and Wisconsin. Illinois and Michigan rates have been above other District states and the nation. Labor markets have tightened in parts of the District but wage gains generally remain restrained, with some firms seeking concessions. Motor Vehicles Sales of domestic cars have remained strong, and domestic truck sales have set a record pace. The industry has been boosting production schedules to meet demand, following cuts earlier this year. Car assemblies in calendar year 1988 are projected about even with 1987, and truck production is expected to be highest ever. A large domestic producer assembling trucks on overtime is reported to be looking into expanding capacity, possibly using recently shuttered plants of another producer. Steel Production of steel slowed seasonally during the summer but is expected to come back strong. Some scheduled maintenance has been deferred in order to keep output at a high level. Mill shipments for the year are projected highest since 1981. Among steel's major markets, domestic motor vehicle production has been revised upward this year; demand for steel from machinery makers has increased considerably; plant investment is rising in chemical process industries, paper, chemicals, petrochemicals, and refineries; and construction steel has stayed strong. Steel mill inventories are thought to have risen in July but are not excessive. Steelmakers in the District are investing in projects to boost quality and productivity. Other Manufacturing Industries Demand for a wide range of machinery types continues to rise, in many cases from low levels. Increased costs for materials are squeezing profit margins, however. Machine tool orders are double the year-ago pace. Railcar orders have doubled and backlogs have tripled. Demand for truck trailers is expected to stay strong, about at last year's pace. Construction machinery sales have improved sharply, encouraging investments in upgrading manufacturing plants. Major home appliance shipments are expected to be second-highest ever this year, 4 percent below 1987. Recreational vehicle sales are projected 8 percent above last year. Construction Construction activity is at a fairly high level in the District, but segments of the industry are slowing and further slowing appears in prospect. Contracts for construction of nonresidential buildings, in square feet of floor space, were 5 percent lower in the first half than a year earlier in District states. Residential construction contracts were 11 percent lower. In contrast, first half shipments of gypsum board in District states were 1 percent higher than a year earlier, reflecting finishing work on projects begun earlier. Apartment construction is weak, and home building has also started to slip. Further slowing is expected in response to higher mortgage interest rates. Industrial building is strong in the District. Office construction remains strong in downtown Chicago, though below the record pace of recent years, and also has been strong in other District cities including Des Moines, Indianapolis, and Milwaukee. Office construction is slowing in suburban Chicago, and is expected to slow in downtown Indianapolis. Total Detroit area nonresidential construction probably peaked last year. Some types of public works construction are very active including streets and highways. Consumer Spending Apparel sales, particularly fall merchandise, were hurt by hot weather in July after a stronger performance in June. Markdowns were described as widespread, depressing dollar volumes. Contacts expressed concerns about overbuilding of retail space in some areas. Drought Effects The drought, relieved somewhat by increased rainfall and cooler weather in recent weeks, has cut crop yields sharply and pared farm equipment sales. Barge traffic was cut by low water levels, helping rail and Great Lakes transport alternatives to barges. Other industries which gained as a result of the drought include pump manufacturers and well drilling. The absence of rain earlier in the summer allowed construction projects to proceed ahead of schedule. Demand for farm equipment, grain storage facilities, and landscaping supplies and services may come back strong next year. Agriculture Crop losses due to the drought were sharper in the District than in the nation. The USDA estimates year-to-year declines of 42 percent in District states' corn production and 27 percent in soybeans. Higher feed costs have squeezed livestock producers' margins. However, recent disaster assistance legislation will cushion adverse drought effects on crop and livestock farmers. District farmland values rose during the second quarter but more slowly than in the previous four quarters. Although the District as a whole was up 1 percent from three months earlier, gains were not reported in all five states. Contacts were less optimistic than earlier about the near-term trend in farmland values.