Overview Economic activity in the Tenth District is mixed, with sluggishness in housing and retail sales and strength in manufacturing. New car sales are steady to slightly higher, but other retailers report steady to slightly lower sales. In the manufacturing sector, many firms are operating near capacity and lead times and input prices continue to increase. Housing starts are below last month's levels and mortgage rates are rising. Both loan demand and deposits have increased slightly at district commercial banks. Effects of the drought on row crops and livestock operations remain a major concern. Retail Sales Retailers generally report sales steady to slightly lower compared with a year earlier, as well as with a few months ago. Some retailers report strong sales in home improvement and entertainment products, while sales of certain lines of apparel have been weak. Most respondents are satisfied with current inventory levels, and are buying cautiously. Retailers generally expect only slow sales growth in the near term. Automobile Sales Automobile dealers report that sales are steady to slightly higher aver the past month. Dealer inventories are down slightly due to the ending of the model year. Most dealers express optimism for future car sales. Manufacturing Many respondents report that plants are operating near full capacity. While materials are generally available, lead times have lengthened. In general, input prices continue to increase and most respondents expect further increases in the next quarter. Respondents consider inventory levels satisfactory or slightly high, and most plan to trim inventories in its near future. Energy The Tenth District's energy industry has been more resilient than expected in the face of weaker nil prices due to surging production by most OPEC members. Exploration and development activity in the district improved in July, despite domestic oil prices that averaged more than a dollar below June prices. The average number of active drilling rigs in the district rose from 258 in June to 268 in July. During the first three weeks of August the rig count increased to 274. Housing Activity and Finance Area homebuilders report that housing starts are below last month's levels and at or below last year's levels. New home sales and prices are generally steady and housing market performance is expected to remain steady. Inventories of unsold homes vary across the district depending on local conditions. A few respondents report some construction material shortages and higher material prices. Nearly all savings and loan respondents report that savings deposit inflows are near or above year ago and month ago levels. Most respondents expect flat or slightly increasing inflows in the near future. In general, mortgage activity has been weak and this weakness is expected to continue through the end of 1988. Mortgage rates have been increasing, and most respondents expect them to rise slightly during the remainder of 1988. Banking District commercial banks report a slight increase in loan demand over the past month, with the greatest strength in commercial and industrial loans. All respondents increased their prime rates by 50 basis points in the past month. For some, this increase followed a similar increase in July and about half the respondents expect a further increase in the prime rate in the near term. Consumer loan rates also increased by 50 basis points at most of the banks surveyed. On average, deposits increased slightly at district banks, although a number of respondents report no change in deposits. Agriculture Crop and range conditions vary widely across the Tenth District. The effects of the drought on corn, soybeans, and other row crops remain of major concern. Timely rains in many parts of the district have improved crop growing conditions and limited crop deterioration since the USDA's August 11 crop report. Irrigated crops are generally in very good condition throughout the district, but the shortage of rainfall has boosted irrigation requirements and driven irrigation costs much higher. Planting of the winter wheat crop begins during the next few weeks, and timely rainfall will be critical to the crop's early development. The drought has also had a significant effect on district cattle feeders and ranchers, but drought-induced liquidation of district cattle herds has been limited. Cattle feeding costs have risen, and scorched pastures and reduced forage production have forced the movement of cattle from drier areas to areas with better grazing conditions. Development of winter wheat pastures this fall will depend on rainfall received during the next month. If wheat pastures prove to be inadequate, further liquidation of district cattle herds may occur. Despite the drought, most agricultural bankers in the district anticipate little change in the rate of loan repayments from last year Most borrowers were able to rebuild financial reserves in recent years, and this year highest crop prices will help offset smaller crop yields. Most district farm lenders and borrowers will be able to withstand the effects of the drought.