Summary The expansion in the Seventh District has strong momentum, with prospects favorable for gains through the year. Consumer spending, still the prime mover, has been above expectations. Confidence levels are the highest in several years. However, employment increases are still mainly in manufacturing. Output of autos and heavy trucks is at capacity levels, restricted by component availability. Some producers of construction equipment, mining equipment, machine tools, and freight cars report increased orders, but capital goods output, overall, remains far below peak levels. Not all sectors in the District are expanding vigorously, but there is no evidence of new deterioration. House sales have been strong relative to past years. Price inflation is increasingly evident. Inventory investment is expected to accelerate, with stocks currently low in virtually all lines. The signup of dairy farmers for the new government output restriction program was far less than expected. Price Inflation Price increases clearly are accelerating, but District analysts believe that the general inflation rate will not accelerate over 2 percent this year. Price increases have been substantial for paper and paperboard, gypsum board, aluminum, and electronic components, all being produced at near-capacity rates. University tuitions are being boosted 8-10 percent. Electric and telephone utilities are requesting very large rate increases, but natural gas rates may level or decline because gas companies have "walked away" from high-priced contracts with suppliers. Rail and truck rates are expected to move up, but airline fares are under downward pressure. Labor Market Conditions Increases in employment in the District are still mainly confined to manufacturing. Unemployment is reported to be reduced substantially in virtually all localities, but declines in estimated unemployment have not been matched in most cases by increases in employment. Motor vehicles account for the major share of the rise in manufacturing employment, but even in that sector employment is far below past peaks. Motor industry employment has not recovered as much as unit assemblies of vehicles because of heavy overtime, more automation (including robots), and increased use of imported components. A large portion of the reported reduction in the number of indefinite layoffs reflects deletions of workers who are no longer eligible for recall. Scattered callback. of workers in capital goods industries amount to only a small fraction of those released during the recession. Most companies that have slashed drastically their middle management staffs have no intention of restoring these jobs. A very large bank, that already has reduced employment by about 10 percent, plans a further reduction of similar magnitude, in part by attrition. Wages and Benefits Companies that are increasing wages and salaries this year indicate that such increases will average in the 5-6 percent range, down as much as 50 percent from increases in some recent years. But some firms are freezing compensation, and others are reducing wages and trimming benefits. Wage cuts have been most general in meat packing, with plant closings threatened if labor does not agree. The largest food chain in the Chicago area recently announced a cut of about 20 percent in hourly rates to get labor costs more in line with fast-expanding "warehouse store" competition. This move abrogates a 21/2-year union contract signed only a few months ago. The union involved is suing, but no strike action appears imminent. A widespread move is underway by employers to slow the rapid rise in the cost of medical benefits, which now often amount to $1,500 per year per active worker, $6,000 in one company. Steps taken include increased employee contributions, higher deductibles, switches to less expensive plans, curtailed coverage, and requirements of "a second opinion" before elective surgery. Consumer Purchases Sales of virtually all types of consumer goods and services have been strong this year, often above expected rates. Major retailers are boosting orders to suppliers to keep stocks at adequate levels. Regional surveys indicate consumers are more confident of their future incomes than at any time in at least five years. Improved confidence, together with rising incomes and generally low installment debt burdens, is unleashing pent-up demand that had been building since 1979. Plans to buy cars are especially strong. Other big selling lines include major appliances, furniture, and personal and home computers. Demand for recreational vehicles and motorcycles also has picked up, but is far below past peaks. Finally, consumers are spending more on airline tickets and vacations. Business Equipment Output of mechanical capital goods, a major District activity, is increasing on a broader front. Heavy trucks, truck trailers, and associated diesel engines are scheduled at full capacity for several months ahead. A large producer of earth-moving equipment is recalling some laid-off workers as demand has increased and parts inventories have been depleted. Most companies report export business very slow, but a producer of huge mining shovels recently won a Turkish contract, the largest single order in the company's history. Orders for freight cars have been rising but only to about 25 percent of capacity. Demand for replacement parts is also up. Three District producers of mobile construction cranes have been phasing out their production activities, because of low demand and severe foreign competition. Farm equipment sales have not picked up as expected. Machine tool orders are increasing, mainly from the auto industry. Overall, the District's capital goods producing sector remains depressed. Motor Vehicles Assemblies of both cars and trucks in the first quarter will be far above last year, and the highest for the period since 1979. With demand strong and inventories of desired models low, this pace is expected to be about maintained in the second quarter. Output is restricted by availability of components, partly because of rejection of parts that fail inspection. Domestic producers are acutely aware that the quality "image" of their products is compared unfavorably with that of vehicles from Japan, Germany, and Sweden. Inventories of most Japanese cars are near rock bottom because of import quotas. Housing The market for new and used homes improved sharply last year and has been surprisingly strong in early 1984. Realtors report prices up 6-8 percent in the past year in good areas, with further gains expected. The market is supported by first-time home buyers who had deferred purchases in recent years because affordable financing was not available. A wide variety of ARMs are now offered, but careful reading of the "fine print" is advised. Some lenders are pushing 15-year amortized loans rather than ARMs. Nonresidential Construction Congressional delay in allocating funds for badly needed highway, bridge, and mass transit projects could require postponement of some projects until next year. Nonresidential private construction activity in the District is dominated by a new wave of large office buildings scheduled to start in the next several months.