Business activity in the Tenth District continues to improve in early 1984. Price increases, bath at retail and for materials inputs, remain moderate. Inventories of both retail goods and industrial inputs are generally regarded as satisfactory. Input availability problems are only spotty and are not regarded as serious. Housing starts are expected to remain strong throughout the year, as are both the demand for mortgage funds and the inflow of savings to savings and loan associations. Loan demand at commercial banks has recently increased somewhat, with lending rates generally unchanged. Adequate credit for spring planting appears to be available to creditworthy farm borrowers. Retail trade Virtually all retailers surveyed report that sales for 1984 continue to be up over the same period last year. Appliances and electronic merchandise have been selling particularly well, while most categories of apparel have been somewhat weak. In general, most respondents are holding to normal seasonal patterns for clearance sales and most are satisfied with present inventory levels. Although the majority of respondents are optimistic about sales for the remainder of the year, many indicate a cautious approach to inventory accumulation for the second half of 1984. Wholesale and retail prices have remained flat over the past three months, and few retailers expect any significant price increases in the near future. Automobile sales All automobile dealers associations contacted report that sales are higher in 1984 than in the same period last year. Financing is readily available for all dealers. Potential buyers are able to get loans, most of which are made directly with banks. Inventories of domestic cars are either being maintained or replenished as the recent surge in demand continues. Stocks of imported autos are low, and many dealers are making a high percentage of orders after sales. All respondents expect sales growth to be maintained or to accelerate this year. Purchasing agents Purchasing agents in the Tenth District report stable to moderately increasing input prices during the past year, generally in the zero to 10 percent range. In the past three months input prices have been stable to 6 percent higher. Half of the agents foresee stable prices for the remainder of 1984 while the rest are predicting increases of 5 to 10 percent. Some minor difficulties are being experienced in getting materials, as some firms seek to expand inventories. However, troubles are spotty with most agents anticipating only slight problems for the remainder of the year. Materials inventory levels are generally satisfactory with little change expected. Housing activity and finance Home builders report that housing starts in January and February exceeded year ago levels, especially in the multifamily category. Starts are expected to remain strong throughout 1984. Sales of new homes have changed little from last year, while inventories have increased. Prices of new homes range from unchanged to 8 percent higher than a year ago. Home builders report that construction materials are general readily available at steady or moderately increasing prices. Savings inflows at savings and loan associations are up from last year and respondents expect inflows will continue to increase through the balance of 1984. Virtually all institutions surveyed report a strong demand for mortgage funds, which is expected to continue. Mortgage interest rates are steady and are expected to remain unchanged to down slightly through 1984. Banking Most Tenth District banks surveyed experienced some increase in loan demand in February. Commercial and industrial loans and consumer loans showed the strongest growth. Deposits rose moderately or remained unchanged at slightly more than half of the surveyed banks, and fell somewhat at the remaining banks. The strongest deposit categories were Super-NOW's, MMDA's, and IRA's. In those banks in which total deposits fell, demand deposits and conventional NOW's accounted for the decline. The prime rate ranged from 11 to 14.3 percent, with most banks charging between 11 and 11.5 percent. Both prime rates and consumer lending rates were unchanged from last month and the surveyed banks expect no changes in the near future. Agriculture Adequate credit for spring planting appears to be available to qualified farm borrowers throughout the Tenth District. However, fewer farmers than normal are considered creditworthy, because of increased cash flow problems and stricter credit standards. Financial pressures are causing some farmers to liquidate assets and the number of farm auction sales is much higher than usual. Although the quantity of land being offered for sale is up sharply, many attempts to sell land have been unsuccessful due to a soft market. Winter feed supplies are short in Colorado, Wyoming, western Kansas, and central Nebraska. As a result, some calves and cattle are being sold earlier than planned. Other parts of the district have good supplies of winter feed. Profits from wintering stocker cattle, especially those grazed on wheat pasture, are expected to be quite favorable. Many farmers in Kansas and New Mexico are participating in the 1984 wheat program, but there is little interest in participation throughout the rest of the district. Interest in the 1984 feed grain program is high in Nebraska and the 1984 cotton program is popular in Oklahoma. Most grain received by district farmers under the 1983 Payment-In-Kind (PIK) program has now been sold.