Summary District labor market conditions continue to improve but the unemployment rate remains high. Retail sales gains slowed in February and are expected to slow further in March. Manufacturing activity apparently increased less rapidly in February than in January. Purchasing agents report a few products in short supply, and firms in several key industries report some operations are at or near capacity limits. Nevertheless, many firms are reluctant to add to capacity. Lenders and builders report little increase in demand for mortgage loans and new houses. Commercial and industrial loan demand continues to rise. District Labor Market Conditions Labor market conditions in this District improved further in January. The unemployment rate in Ohio fell to 9.3 percent (s.a.) in January from 10.4 percent in December. In the last year Ohio's unemployment rate fell 4.7 percentage points while the U.S. rate fell 2.2 percentage points. Nevertheless, the Ohio unemployment rate is still 1.3 percentage points above the national rate. Unemployment rates in eleven major SMSAs in the Fourth District in December ranged from 8.1 percent (nsa) in Columbus to 13.3 percent in Youngstown. Retail Sales An economist with a national retail chain reports year-over-year sales gains slowed in February, and March sales should slow further even after allowance for Easter being later this year than last. He forecasts consumer spending to grow slower next quarter than this. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity continued to increase in February but at a somewhat slower pace than in January. Surveys of purchasing managers in the Cleveland and Cincinnati areas for February indicate production, new orders and backlogs rose from January. Employment rose from January but firms are increasing overtime, using temporary help, and only slowly recalling laid-off workers. Inventory levels for raw materials and supplies rose from January in Cleveland but fell in Cincinnati while finished goods inventories are unchanged. Respondents report lead times are lengthening for several products and suppliers are allocating inadequate supplies of integrated circuits, circuit breakers, coated paper, and stainless steel rod and wire. Buyers expect allocations to be imposed for shipping cartons and some fasteners. Capacity Utilization Major firms in several key industries report operations approaching capacity but few plan to increase capacity or to bring marginal facilities into production. There is also a preference to use overtime or to subcontract rather than to recall workers. There is skepticism that the expansion will continue long enough to justify new capacity, and a reluctance to add capacity to meet peak demand. Two major tire producers report operating at capacity (running as many shifts per week as labor unions will agree to), and one is purchasing tires from competitors to meet customer demand. Capital spending is being used to improve efficiency. Some capacity is still available at other domestic tire producers, and growth of imports has restrained price increases. Nevertheless, prices have begun to firm and industry sources suggest that another price increase is likely in the months immediately ahead. A paper box producer reports the industry's capacity utilization is in the mid-90s percent. Some bottlenecks have appeared but the industry can increase production a little more before physical limits of output are reached. A chemical producer reports ample capacity in that industry, weak prices, and little interest in adding new capacity. The auto industry has plenty of additional capacity to produce some compact and subcompact cars but is operating close to capacity for mid- and standard-sized cars. The industry doesn't plan to reopen marginal plants because they expect demand to ease as the year progresses. Truck producers report light truck (particularly 4-wheel drive) production at capacity, and shortages of axles because supplier capacity was cut during the recession. Heavy-duty truck production is at 90 percent of capacity, but one parts producer expects demand to fall in the second half of the year after a special sales incentive has ended. Medium truck production is at 70 percent of capacity. The aluminum smelting industry is operating at about 83 percent of physical capacity. Prices have been flat since September. Demand for aluminum is stronger than demand for steel because aluminum is used more extensively in consumer products. The steel industry is operating at 77 percent of capacity overall but production of flat-rolled steel, used in cars and major appliances, is at full capacity, and flat bar production is at full capacity at some mills. There is ample capacity to expand production of other steel items. Electrical equipment producers are experiencing weak demand because electric utilities have ample capacity and the machine tool industry, a major customer, is having a relatively mild recovery. Producers of electronics are experiencing very strong demand. Producers of electronic chips and chip-making equipment are operating near capacity and are planning capacity expansions. Construction Despite the recent strength in housing activity nationwide, Fourth District lenders and home builders generally report little increase in demand for mortgage loans and new houses so far this year. Although the acceptance of adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) by consumers has increased (probably because the spread relative to conventional mortgage rates has increased to as much as 300 basis points at some lenders), speculation that government borrowing will increase interest rates has tempered demand for these instruments. Refinancing of existing mortgages appears to have slowed sharply from last year. First-time home-buyers appear to be seeking financing through builders that offer buydowns and below-market rates, while banks are servicing more of the move-up market. Two commercial and industrial building contractors in the Cleveland area expressed optimism for 1984. Although the vacancy rate of newly constructed buildings is still relatively high, they expect that tile glut of space will be substantially reduced by yearend. Commercial Banking Loan demand, particularly commercial and industrial loan demand, continued to increase at banks in the Fourth District in recent weeks. Demand, savings and small time deposits have increased only moderately. Banks have funded loan demand by stepping up their issuance of large denomination negotiable CD's and by reducing their holdings of short term Treasury securities and sales of Federal Funds.