Introduction The expansion continues in all Federal Reserve Districts, but with variations in vigor among regions and sectors. Several banks emphasize a revival of consumer and business confidence, and widespread views that strong momentum will sustain the recovery through the year. Virtually all sectors are expanding or at least holding level, with oil and gas well drilling a significant exception. Geographically, the strongest gains are occurring on the West Coast, with much of the Midwest and Northeast still reporting substantial slack in durable goods manufacturing. Almost all districts noted exceptional strength in retail sales, often exceeding expectations. Demand for housing also is showing surprising strength, helped by wider use of adjustable rate mortgages. Capital expenditure plans are being raised cautiously, with emphasis on productivity and cost cutting. Employment and consumer income are rising at a good pace, but markets are still generally soft in many northern states. Inventories, overall, remain quite low relative to sales. Inventory rebuilding is expected, mainly at the retail level. The farm sector remains depressed, but is being aided by higher prices and increased plantings. Pressures are building on capacity in some industries. Some shortages are reported. Price inflation is accelerating, but still only moderately overall. Credit demands are stronger, especially for home mortgages and installment loans. Retail Trade Consumers continue to lead the expansion, increasing spending since the turn of the year more than had been expected. While all products are selling well, the list is headed by larger domestic cars, imported cars (limited by quotas), small trucks, appliances, consumer electronics, furniture, and recreational equipment. Philadelphia and San Francisco report a rising share of retail sales on credit. Housing Demand for new and used homes continued "surprisingly" strong in January and February. The housing revival has been particularly vigorous in the West. Cleveland reported a leveling in activity. Stronger than expected buying is widely attributed to adjustable rate mortgages offered at interest rates initially well below those charged on fixed-rate mortgages. Richmond notes a revival of speculative building, in anticipation of strong spring sales. Atlanta notes a sharp drop in permits for multifamily construction, as first-time buyers move out of apartments. Dallas also reports concern about overbuilding of multifamily structures. Employment Job markets have strengthened in all districts, but unemployment remains disturbingly high, especially north of the Ohio river. Cleveland reports that cautious employers are increasing use of overtime and part-time help in preference to permanent increases in force. Chicago notes much slower advance in wages than in past years, and widespread moves to curtail non-wage benefits, especially soaring medical costs. Manufacturing and Mining Factory output continues to advance on a broad front. Output of some car and truck models is at capacity, restricted by component availability. District reports tell of strength in paper, carpets, farm chemicals, and fertilizer (Atlanta), defense and high tech capital goods (Boston, New York, and Minneapolis), and lumber, aircraft, and missiles (San Francisco). One of the few weak areas is oil and gas well drilling (Dallas), with associated manufactured goods. Steel is up sharply from the low point, but still far below capacity. Agricultural equipment output remains at low levels. Capital Goods The upturn in outlays for business equipment, earlier concentrated in electronic types, is becoming more widespread among heavier mechanical equipment. Further improvement is expected. A few capital goods industries are operating near effective capacity, but most are well short of these levels. Investment is frequently oriented toward controlling costs and enhancing productivity, rather than adding to capacity. Industries experiencing strong demand or sharply improved orders include electronics and robotics, heavy trucks, trailers, and aircraft. Machine tool orders have improved modestly, restrained by severe foreign competition. Orders are also up for freight cars, construction equipment, and mining equipment, but remain far short of prosperous levels. Nonresidential Construction Although office building construction continues strong in Chicago, New York, and Dallas, there are fears of excess space in some areas. San Francisco sees a strong rise underway n shopping centers and hotels. Richmond notes an improving outlook for commercial construction. With manufacturers' capital spending mainly to improve productivity, factory space is still generally ample. But some firms are expanding. San Francisco indicates that electronics and defense suppliers are investing in new structures. Most firms, however, are reluctant to add new space or even bring marginal facilities back on stream. An expected increase in highway construction this year may be hampered by Congressional delays in approving funding. Agriculture Higher farm prices and increased plantings, mainly because of the expiration of the PIK program, suggest a stronger agricultural sector in 1984. However, farmers continue under financial stress. Atlanta reports a high rate of farm loan delinquencies, especially on government agency loans. Kansas City finds farmland sales sick and values soft. Chicago mentions the low sign-up for the new dairy program intended to reduce the milk surplus. San Francisco reports plantings of fruits and vegetables going well, with good prices for product, partly because of the freeze in Texas and Florida. Inventories Manufacturers and trade firms are keeping inventories at low levels relative to activity. Boston, New York, and St. Louis report retailers building stocks to accommodate stronger sales. While most companies say inventories are at "acceptable" levels (Richmond) or "satisfactory" (Kansas City), leadtimes are increasing; and some shortages are evident. A number of districts report low inventories of motor vehicles, especially imported cars, electronic components, paper and paperboard, and gypsum board. Inflation Prices are rising at a faster pace, but still not to an alarming degree. Philadelphia and Kansas City state that purchasing managers expect prices to rise faster as the year moves on. Higher prices are related to shortages and longer leadtimes, which reflect pressures on capacity. So far the largest price increases have been for purchased materials, but increasingly tags are being raised on finished goods. Chicago finds large rate increases under discussion for electric utilities and telephone service. College tuitions have been boosted sharply. Cleveland states that price increases for tires have been held back by availability of imports, an observation that also applies to a wide range of products.