Summary Business activity continues to expand in the Seventh District. The Christmas shopping season was stronger than expected for many retailers. Paperboard shipments have picked up after growing more slowly in the second and third quarters. Demand for steel continues strong. Motor vehicle production plans are at high levels, but some contacts expect slower sales in 1989 to require cutbacks. Demand for equipment is robust across a range of industries, but one contact notes increased hesitancy about further additions to capacity, out of concern that the economy may turn down in 1990. Construction activity has been above expectations, but advance indicators suggest that declines are likely. Some labor markets have tightened in recent years, but conditions vary widely among locations and occupations. Farm debt owed to banks rose last year, after declines in previous years. Retail Sales Merchants report generally favorable results for the Christmas selling season. An Illinois retailers' group estimates that its members' sales during the period were 6 percent or more above a year earlier. Many engaged in less promotional activity than in recent years. The picture is mixed, however; year-to-year sales gains at a large general merchandiser's Chicago-area stores were relatively weak compared with other parts of the country. Where sales were up, strength was in both durables and nondurables, including women's apparel. The pickup in apparel is expected to continue. Credit sales are high. Contacts have indicated that delinquencies have risen but not alarmingly. Labor Markets Markets for labor have tightened in the District over the past few years, but conditions differ substantially among geographic areas and occupations. A manufacturer planning additions to employment foresaw problems finding qualified factory workers at a plant in a "booming" Chicago suburb, but not at other plants. Stores in large shopping centers around Chicago reported difficulty finding clerical staff, particularly through the Christmas season. Fast food restaurants advertise continuously and prominently for employees. Some skills are in short supply. On the other hand, openings for other skilled and experienced workers appear quite limited, attributed partly to corporate downsizing and mergers. An outplacement firm reports a sharp rise, during the past 2 years, in the proportion of people willing to relocate out of state. Steel Orders for steel are strong but "orderly," with lead times shorter than at seasonal peaks last spring. Demand from auto and appliance makers continues at high levels. Sales to industrial equipment makers remain well above levels of a few years ago. Adequate capacity for these types of steel is in place for further expansion. Construction steel markets are strong, and the largest backlog in years will keep shipments brisk at least through the first half of 1989. Steel service centers' sales continue vigorous. Motor Vehicles Industry observers think auto production plans may be excessive relative to likely sales. Inventory accumulation would lead to enhanced sales incentives, production cuts, or both. One source forecast a 2 percent decline in unit auto sales in 1983. Another expected a drop of 5 percent or more. Truck sales in 1989 were expected to be near all-time highs, but down a little from 1988's record pace. A heavy truck maker predicted continued strong demand for large trucks in early 1989, but thought a weaker economy and higher interest rates may subsequently cut into sales. Equipment Reports on the outlook for business equipment are mixed. The producers' durable goods sector continues to "roll on with great momentum," according to one source. Another expects capital spending programs begun in 1988 to keep investment vigorous in 1989. Strongest have been chemical process industries. Other industries reported to be adding to capacity include manufacturers of glass, appliances, tires, and some types of electrical equipment, as well as food processors, printers and airlines. Farm equipment sales may rise 15 percent to 20 percent this year, according to one producer. Buying of construction and mining equipment was up strongly last year, but an industry source thinks the replacement cycle in these sectors may be nearly over. Another contact reports increasing concerns about the risk of economic weakness in 1990 may result in smaller spending increases than indicated by recent national surveys. A maker of communications equipment and electronic components sees indications of slowing in both sectors, and expects the downtrend to continue. Construction Declines in contracts for residential and nonresidential building construction in the 5 District states point to a slowdown ahead. However, suppliers indicate that the current pace of building activity remains fairly high. Work on industrial buildings is particularly strong in the Midwest. Work on hospitals, convention centers, and office buildings is also described as strong. Gypsum board shipments to District states rose somewhat in 1988 (based on 11 months of data) and are expected to be about even in 1989. (In view of the strength of construction material shipments to building sites and of construction industry employment, two contacts regard Commerce Dept. figures on nonresidential construction activity nationwide in 1988 as too low, particularly for industrial buildings.) Agriculture Farm debt owed to banks turned up modestly in 1988, following a 16 percent slide over three years in District states and a 13 percent decline nationwide. Call Report data as of the end of the third quarter show that farm debt owed to banks was up 3.4 percent from a year ago in District states, and up 3.0 percent nationwide. The gains stem from continued strong growth in farm real estate loans and, for the first time in 15 quarters, a nominal rise in farm production loans. Farm debt owed to other lenders continued to decline through the third quarter, but at a much slower pace than in recent years. About a year ago, banks moved ahead of the Farm Credit System as the largest institutional lender serving farmers.