Summary The economy of the Twelfth Federal Reserve District continues to exhibit strength. Most respondents to the survey expect robust growth in their industries and regions, although they have become more pessimistic about the national economy. Resource industries remain healthy, with strong growth reported in mining. Construction is healthy in areas other than Alaska, Arizona, and Utah where real estate remains in oversupply. Manufacturing is expanding in most areas, led by aerospace, forest products, and electronics. Retail sales posted healthy year-over-year gains. Business Sentiment Respondents to the survey are more pessimistic about future national growth, investment, foreign trade, and inflation than they have been at any time during the past year. Nearly 64 percent of the respondents expect growth to slow, and 6 percent of the respondents anticipate a recession during the next four quarters. These sentiments about national trends contrast sharply with the respondents' own industry and area outlooks. Despite the negative outlook for the national economy, respondents generally report very strong conditions in their regions. Resource Industries Respondents to the survey are optimistic about the District's agriculture. Recent rainfall has been near normal, raising hopes that the drought is ending in the West. High cattle prices are expected to keep profits high in cattle production despite rising production costs. Agricultural exports from the District are expected to climb this year. One respondent in the Northwest reports very strong export activity for processed food to the Pacific Rim countries. Foreign demand is growing for agricultural products as tariff barriers are reduced. Some concern is registered in California, where a threatened tariff war with the European Community could reduce California's exports of walnuts and dried fruits. Mining is very strong in the District. Respondents report substantial new investment to open new gold, silver, copper, and phosphate mines and to refurbish existing mines. Exports of copper are being eliminated by rising domestic consumption. Energy industries are being buoyed by rising oil prices, although most new expenditures on plant and equipment are designed to refurbish existing fields, rather than to discover new reserves. Respondents in forest products industries report some easing of capacity constraints as demand growth slows and new capacity comes on stream. Production of plywood and lumber has fallen by 3 percent, but pulp and paper production remains near capacity. One respondent reports that log inventories have been rebuilt, but another respondent reports that small mills are unable to compete with Asian customers for logs and may be forced to close. Construction and Real Estate Real estate and construction are reported strong in the District, except in Alaska, Arizona, and Utah. Respondents in California report continued year-over-year increases in property values and sales activities. Nonresidential and residential construction remain at high levels in Southern California, and commercial rents are rising. The volume of residential sales is reported to be very strong in Oregon. A respondent in Seattle notes that housing prices are increasing at a 10 percent annual rate. Arizona remains overbuilt. Although home prices have not changed significantly, one respondent reports that the price of undeveloped land purchased in earlier speculative buying has fallen by as much as a 40 percent. Manufacturing Manufacturing industries continue to expand in the West. Boeing is building new plants in the Seattle and Spokane areas and is seeking to boost production by one plane per month at existing facilities. Capital equipment producers have become increasingly competitive in world markets. Several respondents reported that domestic equipment has been displacing foreign equipment. Caterpillar is said to be near capacity, with one dealer in Utah reporting a 30 percent increase in Caterpillar sales this year. Small electric power producers in the Northwest plan significant additions to capacity this next year. One respondent noted that the drought and increased consumption forced utilities to draw on reserve capacity this past year, signaling a need for new power production. One retailer reports a shift of apparel manufacturing to west coast cities from Asia because of higher imported apparel costs. Electronics firms also are expanding. Several major electronics firms are building new plants in Idaho and other parts of the West. In California, however, sluggish sales of some electronic components have caused scattered layoffs. Retail Sales Retailers in the District report strong sales. Sales over the Christmas holidays ran 7 to 15 percent above year-earlier levels in most areas. Early indications for January show no slackening in consumer spending. Apparel prices have been rising faster than the general rate of inflation, and this trend is expected to continue through the first half of 1989.