Overview The Tenth District economy continues to grow modestly. Retail sales are up from a year earlier, and auto sales are beginning to pick up a bit in some district states. Manufacturing plants continue to operate below capacity, though a few are experiencing skilled labor shortages. Oil and gas exploration and development remain stronger than a year ago. Housing activity is down from a year ago, but starts have increased recently due to warmer weather. Mortgage demand is weak at thrift institutions, and loan demand at commercial banks is generally steady to down from a month ago. Small businesses report only slight tightening in the availability of credit to them from traditional sources. Little if any such tightening is reported by agricultural borrowers. Rural nonfarm businesses are benefiting from the improved performance of the agricultural sector. Retail Sales Most district retailers report higher sales over last year, but mixed sales over the last three months. Some improvement in sales is expected in the next few months. Retailers are generally satisfied with current inventories and will try to keep them at current levels. Prices have changed in line with cost increases and are expected to change little in the near future. New auto sales have improved slightly in some district states but remain sluggish in others. Some dealers report tighter credit terms for potential buyers. Most dealers continue trimming inventories in expectation of only slightly higher sales in coming months. Manufacturing Most purchasing agents report moderate input price increases from a year ago. Prices have been fairly steady over the last three months and are expected to remain so or to increase slightly over the next three months. Materials inputs are readily available, and purchasing agents expect no problems in obtaining materials for the rest of the year. Lead times on certain inputs have increased slightly, however. Most firms continue trying to trim inventories. Plants are operating below capacity, though a few are experiencing skilled labor shortages. Energy Oil prices were expected to soften in the second quarter, but high OPEC production and weak world demand caused prices to fall faster than anticipated. Already down $3 from their mid-winter peak, prices declined an additional $2 a barrel during the first two weeks of April. Despite softer prices, exploration and development activity in the district has increased from a year ago. The district rig count fell from 255 in February to 226 in March, but was 7 percent above the rig count in March 1989. Housing Activity and Finance District housing activity is down from a year ago. However, builders report stronger housing starts over recent months because of warmer weather. Single-family construction continues to be stronger than multi-family. New home sales are slow, and prices remain generally stable. Respondents expect housing activity to remain slow for the rest of the year. Most district savings and loan respondents report deposit increases both over last month and over last year. Respondents have mixed expectations about deposits in the near term. Some expect outflows due to continuing problems in the industry, while others expect inflows due to a return of customer confidence. Mortgage demand is weak at most institutions, and is expected to improve only seasonally. Mortgage rates remain steady and are expected to be steady to down slightly over the rest of the year. Banking Commercial bank respondents report total loan demand was constant or down over the last month. Home mortgages, commercial real estate loans, and commercial and industrial loans were constant at most banks; agricultural loans were down. In contrast, most banks report higher demand for construction loans, and higher or constant demand for home equity loans. Prime rates and consumer lending rates were unchanged at nearly all banks, with no change expected in the near term. Nonprice terms of lending have changed for some borrowers, however. Some small businesses, and especially newer businesses and start-ups, report facing slightly more stringent lending terms, often in the form of higher collateral requirements. Most banks report loan-deposit ratios unchanged or up from last month. Deposit activity was mixed at district banks. Levels of NOWs, MMDAs, IRAs, and Keoghs were constant at most banks, while demand deposits and large CDs were down at many banks. Agriculture The district's winter wheat crop is in good condition due to plentiful rainfall and mild temperatures in recent weeks. Above average wheat yields are expected in much of the district. Continued rainfall and low soil temperatures threaten to delay planting of spring crops in some states. Improved soil moisture conditions have bolstered the outlook for the district's spring crops, however. Credit standards at district agricultural banks are generally steady. Credit is readily available to creditworthy farm borrowers, with repayment capacity a key lending condition. Some bankers in areas affected by the past two years of drought, however, report a modest tightening of credit standards on farm loans. Where the drought was especially severe, some farm loans restructured during the mid-1980s have required additional attention. Across most of the district, however, bankers report no undue problems with previously restructured farm loans. The performance of rural nonfarm businesses in the Tenth District varies widely. Most are stable, but some are growing moderately and others are declining slowly. Those rural nonfarm businesses dependent on agriculture have benefited from the improved performance of the farm economy.