Summary Contacts in the Seventh District continue to report generally improving business conditions, although areas of weakness were also cited. Purchasing agents' surveys indicate a rise in production, but orders are slowing in some areas of the District. Contacts in the manufacturing sector report slow but steady gains over a wide range of products. Construction activity remains stronger in the District than nationwide, but the housing market is showing signs of softening. Consumer spending has been holding up well in recent months, but sales for one large retailer were unexpectedly weak in early April. Surveys of purchasing managers in the District showed improvements in production, but a mixed pattern in orders. Chicago's survey indicated a steady increase in the number of firms expanding production since the beginning of the year. Firms receiving more new orders also outnumbered firms receiving fewer new orders. Both Milwaukee's and Indianapolis' survey showed expanding production last quarter. However, in the March survey Milwaukee had the number of firms with lower production equaling the number with higher production. Similarly, after indicating increasing orders in January and February, Milwaukee's March survey indicated that the number of firms receiving fewer new orders outnumbered the firms receiving more new orders. Indianapolis' and Detroit's survey also showed declining orders in the first quarter. Manufacturing A number of contacts indicated that manufacturing activity continues to make modest gains. Improvements among consumer goods producers are being led by the auto industry. Although domestic car production in the second quarter is expected to be about 10 percent below its year-ago level, a recent survey of auto makers indicated that car production this quarter is expected to be 20 percent above the first quarter. One auto maker extended the temporary shutdown of an assembly plant in the District by one week in early April because of slow car sales. However, all auto facilities are scheduled to be operating by the last week of April, with some working overtime. An economist for the steel industry reported that orders have been "flooding in" from the auto industry, although the orders have had longer lead times. Steel shipments in the second quarter are expected to be about equal to a year ago. Capital goods producers generally reported improving orders and sales. A producer of a wide range of capital goods noted that sales began to improve in February and orders have been strengthening since the beginning of the year, led by petroleum equipment and food machinery. Other special industry machinery orders were up slightly, with the exception of automotive service equipment which has been weak for over six months. An economist in the communications equipment industry cited an increase in orders across a variety of products and expects double-digit growth in the near future. An uptick in orders for electronic components, however, may be due to fears of shortages, which have led to double ordering, according to an industry analyst. Sales of farm and construction equipment continue to be extremely good, according to a industry economist. Farm equipment sales are very strong, particularly combines and large tractors. Construction equipment sales have also been holding up, despite sluggish housing and shopping center construction nationally. The economist noted that sales in that company's Midwest market have been showing solid gains. Construction and Real Estate Construction activity in the District continues to outpace the nation, as unseasonably warm weather boosted residential and nonresidential building. A supplier of building materials reported that year-to-date shipments to District states are up, compared to a drop for the nation as a whole. Similarly, an analyst in the cement industry noted that cement shipments to the District have grown substantially faster than nationally, with the exception of flatness in sales to Michigan, which was attributed to the weakness in the state's auto industry. Several contacts cited special factors that may be hampering construction. A financial analyst stated that builders are in need of new sources of loans, because savings and loan institutions are "out of the market." A steel producer noted some slowing in orders from the construction industry that may reflect delays in projects due to financing problems. And, an equipment supplier also noted that some plant construction, particularly in the chemical industry, is being held back until environmental regulations are finalized. The housing market is showing some signs of weakening. A bank economist cited a softening in Chicago's real estate loan market, especially for mid-to-high priced homes. Mortgage rates have moved above 10 percent at most lending institutions in the area and some banks have started tightening credit terms. Available funds for new construction are being absorbed mostly by single-family housing units, with few funds going to multi-family units, according to one financial analyst. A supplier to the mobile home industry reported sharp sales declines in most regions of the country, including the District. However, one bank economist noted that housing prices in the District have risen more closely in line with personal income than in other regions, which has contributed to a stronger housing market here than in the nation on average. Consumer Spending Recent patterns in general merchandise sales are difficult to interpret because of atypical weather and a late Easter, but several contacts indicated year-over-year sales gains in recent months. An economist for a major department store chain reported steady improvements through early April in their seasonally adjusted weekly sales figures, led by electronic goods and appliances. These sales gains occurred without special promotions. Sales declined, however, for women's accessories, men's clothing, and lawn and garden supplies. Sales have been strongest in Wisconsin and Illinois, and declined in Michigan. An analyst for a major discount chain reported that sales in February and March were the best for that period since 1983, with double-digit gains in all types of electronics. However, overall sales in the first full week of April unexpectedly declined from a year ago, even after adjusting for differences in the Easter selling season and despite the fact that store traffic remained relatively high. Domestic car and truck sales in the early part of April were down from a year ago. An industry economist, who had expected that first quarter sales would be strong enough to end the need for sales incentives, now sees promotional activity continuing through the second quarter. Banking Isolated reports of tighter credit standards were obtained from several lending officers in the District. With respect to commercial and industrial loans, the only report of credit tightening related to loan requests involving borrowing institutions that are highly leveraged. Demand from leveraged borrowers has fluctuated widely in recent weeks. No lending officer stated, however, that their institution had directly altered credit standards. Other business traffic was reported by a major Chicago lending institution to be "routine." One respondent indicated that, in response to his bank's apparent concern over loan quality, the borrower was being asked for more loan documentation. This respondent indicated that the bank was now asking the borrower for what purpose were the funds to be used. Another respondent said that troubled loans were not being carried as long by banks. This respondent also noted that there was an increasing array of new sources of credit available to the small business borrowers. The general impression conveyed by several respondents was that funds were adequately available to good borrowers.