District reports indicate that overall economic activity continues to expand slowly in April. The agriculture sector reports some weather-related damage to specific crops, but drought fears have been alleviated by recent rains, and the farm outlook is generally optimistic. Natural resource industries are generally reported to be healthy, with exploration and drilling holding up well in the oil and gas industry. Residential real estate markets remain generally weak, but with some specific geographic areas doing well. Nonresidential construction is mixed, with public works projects supplying some strength. Manufacturing is also mixed, with some improvement noted in half of the districts. Plants are still apparently operating below capacity, however, and there has been little upward pressure on industrial prices. Retail spending has been growing slowly in general, and merchants are looking for small real gains throughout the rest of the year. Auto sales, however, remain weak. In the financial sector, demand for loans is varied but generally flat, with loans for commercial real estate down in most districts. There is little evidence that a general "credit crunch" is developing; the majority of businesses say they have not seen any change in credit terms and have had no trouble getting credit. Where credit tightening by banks and thrift institutions has been noted, however, it has mainly affected newer small businesses and the real estate industry. Agriculture The cold, wet weather that dominated much of the nation through spring took its toll on some crops. Richmond, Atlanta, and St. Louis say apple and peach crops were damaged, in some cases severely, and inclement weather has delayed field work and planting in the Atlanta, St. Louis, and Kansas City districts. However, soil moisture levels have now reached adequate, or even surplus, levels in most areas, with the exception of some parts of the Minneapolis district and California. Although winter wheat sustained some weather-related damage in the Richmond and St. Louis districts, Minneapolis says losses were small in that district, and farmers in contact with Kansas City and Dallas are optimistic about the wheat crop this year. Atlanta and St. Louis say farmers intend to plant more cotton, rice, and soybeans this year. Atlanta adds that higher cotton and grain prices may bring some previously idled land back into production. Natural Resources Although oil and gas prices have fallen from year-ago levels, they remain at a level high enough to encourage continued drilling and exploration, according to Kansas City and Dallas. Dallas says the industry is "healthy"; Kansas City reports that the rig count, while down from the February level, is higher than a year ago; Atlanta says domestic drilling is holding steady and that no change is expected. Minneapolis says mining, especially for precious metals, remains strong. Atlanta and St. Louis both report increased coal exports. Forest product industries are also healthy, according to San Francisco and Minneapolis, although concern about environmental issues is causing uncertainty about expansion plans. Real Estate and Construction Housing remains weak in most parts of the nation, with multifamily activity relatively weaker than single-family activity. Although a recent weather-related increase in activity is noted by several districts, no signs of a sustained turnaround are evident. Housing prices remain generally sluggish and are reported by Boston and New York to be falling further; New York, however, indicates that price declines are confined to the New York metropolitan area. Real estate activity in Michigan has been weak also as a result of softness in the auto industry. Pockets of strength in real estate are reported in Minneapolis-St. Paul, in parts of California, and in upstate and western New York. Although industry representatives expect some improvement in 1990, most anticipate a slow year, with sales dampened in part by tighter credit standards imposed by banks. Nonresidential activity is mixed. In Atlanta, the office market remains "subdued," New York says the pace of leasing is good (but that renters are getting significant concessions), and Dallas says the nonresidential market is weak. Atlanta and Philadelphia report strength in public construction projects. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity is mixed across the nation; a majority of the districts report some improvement, or expectations of improvement, in the coming quarters. Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco all indicate that industrial activity is increasing. St. Louis says the sector is weak, while Boston and Philadelphia report mixed conditions. New orders and shipments are up in most districts, although no general upward pressure on industrial prices is noted. Those areas that mention inventories indicate that they are in line with expectations; no district report indicates that stock levels are excessive. Chicago says auto production is leading the pickup, despite continued sluggishness in sales, and that all auto facilities are expected to be operating by the end of April. Cleveland agrees that the auto industry is rebounding, but says contacts in that region still expect second-quarter output to be lower than a year ago. Other strong industries include apparel (Atlanta), steel (Chicago), and various capital goods (Chicago). The commercial aerospace industry is also among the stronger industries in the Boston and San Francisco districts. Atlanta, however, says there is concern in the southeast that the industry may soon show weakness in that region as a result of possible Defense Department cutbacks. Several Districts say auto-related products are still in the doldrums. The outlook for the industrial sector is improving. Manufacturers in the Philadelphia region say they expect a pickup within six months and are planning to boost capital spending. Cleveland's report indicates that the "worst of the production cutbacks are over." Manufacturers in the Richmond area are also more optimistic; a recent survey indicates that developments in Eastern Europe are expected to give sales a push over the next two years, but that most businesses will benefit later rather than sooner. Consumer Spending Retail sales vary by district, but reports generally reflect slow, positive growth. Sales growth was strongest in the Cleveland, Richmond, Minneapolis, and San Francisco districts and weakest in St. Louis and Dallas. Kansas City says sales are above year-ago levels but have been mixed recently. Philadelphia and Chicago note that sales gains in their areas have been achieved without resorting to promotions or markdowns. Retailers generally say inventories are in line with projected sales. Apparel has been an especially strong seller in most districts. Hard goods, such as furniture, appliances, and other household items, while strong in some areas, are contributing less to overall growth. The outlook for consumer spending also varies by region, but retailers are generally looking for modest gains in 1990 as a whole, Boston merchants say 1990 will be "difficult," and contacts in Philadelphia say they are looking for niches; they do not anticipate a broad-based surge in sales this year. Only in St. Louis are store managers overtly pessimistic, expecting the softness noted in that region to continue throughout the year. There is some concern in several districts that unseasonably warm weather led to sales that were borrowed, in part, from the second quarter, and that second- quarter sales will now suffer as a result. In addition, the uncertain outlook for the housing sector is blurring the outlook for sales of household goods and making many merchants cautious in developing projections. Auto sales are reported to be spotty but generally weak across the nation, and little improvement is expected in the near future. The profitability of auto dealers also varies. Atlanta reports that, while many dealers are increasing profits and some popular models are in short supply, some small dealers in rural areas have gone out of business. Financial Total loan demand varies by district but is generally flat. In Philadelphia and St. Louis, loan volume is higher, while San Francisco and Kansas City say volume is stable. Richmond reports a slight increase in problem loans. Activity in specific categories also varies by District. In Philadelphia, business loans, especially to manufacturers, are leading the growth noted there, while New York says business loans to retailers have been providing strength. In St. Louis, business loans in general have been growing, along with loans in other categories as well. However, most districts report that commercial real estate loans are down because of a number of factors: tightened lending requirements, more scrutiny by regulators, overbuilding in many markets, and locally sluggish economies. Credit Conditions Although virtually every District cites some specific cases of credit tightening by banks, with the most significant action taken by New England banks, there is little evidence of a general "credit crunch." Many banks have reviewed lending policies in recent months, cutting back on loans to the real estate industry and newer small businesses, or tightening up lending requirements by increasing collateral requirements or shortening loan terms. In addition, many builders are having a more difficult time securing financing because of the new lending limits in the thrift industry. Still, the majority of businesses say they have not seen any change in credit terms, and have not had trouble getting loans.