Summary The economic picture is definitely brighter in the Seventh District, but there is scant hope that employment and output will soon regain a substantial portion of the ground lost in the steep descent from the prosperous levels of 1978. Confidence has been at least partially restored. Households are spending more freely, especially on motor vehicles and other durables. Employment appears to be rising gradually and factory hours have lengthened. Output schedules for autos and trucks have been raised. The uptrend in housing activity, both transactions and new construction, seems to have substantial momentum, assuming interest rates do not rise. Nonresidential construction remains weak with widespread evidence of overbuilding. Except for a few items such as double trailers, demand for producer goods remains very depressed. Depleted inventories of steel and other materials and components are being cautiously replenished. In the farm sector, adverse weather has delayed field work, but income prospects have improved, mainly because of PIK. The decline in District farmland value ended in the first quarter. Caterpillar Strike With the ending of the seven-month Caterpillar strike on April 25, one of the District's largest manufacturers resumed ordering steel, castings, and other supplies. Demand for Caterpillar's earth-moving equipment remains weak, but its inventories of finished goods and replacement parts had declined so much that sales were being lost. Company Restructuring Business confidence has improved to the point that "mere survival" is no longer the principal concern of hard- pressed enterprises. But many prominent District companies are emerging from the recession smaller, leaner, and less aggressive. Breakeven points have been lowered by "drastic blood-lettings", with deep cuts in supervisory and white-collar staff that will not be restored, and closings of less efficient plants that will not be reopened. Refinancing of debt will continue as opportunities develop, but new debts will be incurred only reluctantly. Producer Goods Demand for most capital goods produced in the District remains very slow. However, depressed lines are no longer getting worse. Moreover, a pronounced pickup has occurred in orders for double truck trailers permitted by new federal regulations. Also, sales of some types of mining and construction equipment have improved. The longer-term outlook for capital goods is clouded by the lack of large programs in the planning stage in basic industries such as steel, chemicals, electric power, and energy development. Motor Vehicles Auto dealers believe a solid, if moderate, rise in demand for domestic cars and light trucks is underway. Easier credit terms, improved product quality, and stronger consumer confidence are cited. Auto demand is centered in full-sized, conventional cars, which are generally in short supply. A large proportion of these cars are built to order. Recreational vehicle sales also are much improved. Auto output will not decline as much as usual in the third quarter. Rapid, "rolling" model changeovers are planned for most makes. Output of both cars and trucks will be up sharply in the third quarter from last year, but still well below the high levels of 1978. Steel The industry's reduced capacity to produce cold-rolled and coated sheet is fully booked for the near future, mainly because of increased vehicle production. Light structurals also have picked up. Demand for plates and large structurals remains very weak. Retail Sales Some large retailers are pleased with recent increases in sales, with appliances, furniture, consumer electronics, and some types of clothing showing good gains. Inventories are on the low side. Housing Transactions in existing homes are up sharply, particularly in the Chicago area. Many purchasers are first-time home owners, often two-income couples, who have been waiting for "affordable" mortgages. Residential construction is up by about two-thirds in the District from last year, but is less than half the level of early 1978. Prices of building materials have increased, but no significant shortages are expected if starts do not exceed the expected 1.5-1.6 million range. Nonresidential Construction Most types of nonresidential construction in the District will be lower this year. Office space is overbuilt, especially in downtown Chicago, and substantial concessions are offered to attract tenants. No large new shopping centers are planned, but work on small "strip" retail developments and renovations are at a good pace. Utility construction and most public works also will decline. However, highway and bridge repair work will increase substantially. Agriculture Cold, wet weather has substantially delayed spring field work, caused death losses and slow weight gains for livestock, and disrupted production of fruits and vegetables. However, projections of net farm income for this year have been raised. Planting intentions suggest that corn acreage will be down 31 percent in District states, and soybean acreage down 4 percent. Our April 1 survey of agricultural bankers indicates that the downturn in District farmland values ended in the first quarter, aided by the PIK program. Each of the District states noted at least a slight upturn. Potential land buyers who had been waiting for land prices to "bottom" have reappeared, and landowners wanting to sell are less inclined to accept low bids.