Evidence of recovery continues to grow, but certain sectors, particularly agriculture and the textile and chemical industries, remain weak. Retail sales, especially of consumer durables, are still on the upswing. Construction continues the previously reported resurgence. The financial sector shows modest improvement, but uncertainty prevails in some local markets. The upsurge in tourism remains concentrated geographically, but the increase in the volume of air travel appears to be spreading. Employment and Industry Signs of recovery in manufacturing output and employment are uneven. Orders in the lumber industry are strengthening. After an extended period of economic slack, shipments of phosphates have revived in Florida. In contrast, output and employment in the textile industry have not yet responded to the upturn in economic activity. Nonetheless, industry representatives are optimistic. They expect increasing auto sales and new housing construction to boost orders for tire cord, upholstery, carpeting, and draperies. Still, they express concern about the cost of financing new equipment required to become competitive with foreign producers. Spokesmen for the petrochemical industry in Louisiana and Mississippi foresee little improvement in demand for petrochemicals. Engineering firms report that companies are not expanding product lines but are exploring alternatives with higher profit potential. Many establishments are shifting to more lucrative specialty chemicals. Consumer Spending District retailers report continued sales gains in March and April. Retail sales performance in the Southeast, especially in Orlando and Atlanta, is reportedly better than in other parts of the country. Department store officials say that current promotional activity rather than recovery in the housing industry is spurring sales and higher-than-usual inventories. Merchants expect retail sales to weaken in May but look for a strong back-to-school season. Both attendance and orders at the fall apparel buyers' market in Atlanta were up 15 percent over last year. Retailers reportedly stepped up their buying because sales have been strengthening in recent months. District motor vehicle sales in April continued the upward trend of the past few months. Automobile dealers say that sales of full-size, luxury models and light trucks are responsible for most of the improvement. Construction Officers of financial institutions expect mortgage rates to continue declining through May. Reports from building permit offices indicate April and May applications are at least as strong as March, during which they were up sharply in spite of bad weather. Our respondents believe the strong permit data during the first four months of the year reflect the true strength of residential housing demand. Those we polled see a general firming of house prices and in some areas outright price hikes by means of the elimination of builder buy-downs and other discounts. Respondents in Tennessee, Mississippi, and Georgia anticipate new construction and office space absorption to be at lower levels in 1983 than in 1982. Sources in Florida, Louisiana, and Alabama are more optimistic yet cautious. Contacts report a hiatus in new construction of large shopping centers in Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee. Shopping center construction in Florida and Louisiana is characterized as steady with good prospects for picking up in the near future. Finance Legislators in Florida and Tennessee have effectively defeated bills to allow interstate banking in their respective states. Proponents of the Florida legislation maintained that interstate banking would provide more capital for loans, expand the state's tax base, and create some healthy competition. Although tabled, the Florida bill could come up later this year. Advocates of the Tennessee legislation argued that out-of-state acquisition of some local banks would relieve the lack of confidence in the state's financial industry caused by the failure of United American Bank (UAB). Bankers claim the FDIC's failure to honor loan participations purchased by Tennessee and Kentucky banks from the now defunct UAB could further weaken some already shaken institutions. Tourism Contacts report an expanded increase in the volume of air traffic at regional airports. Smaller carriers are introducing service to many local airports that major airlines abandoned following deregulation. However, financial conditions for southeastern carriers remain troubled despite a slight abatement in the intensity of airfare competition. Our contacts do not expect financial conditions for District-based carriers to improve until at least the third quarter. In other sectors of the travel market strength remains concentrated geographically: Central Florida is booming, while lodgings and attractions in south Florida, Tennessee, and Louisiana languish. Atlanta's convention trade continues to be troubled by shortened stays and drop-offs in bookings although volume is up. Agriculture Declining demand for short-term credit by District farmers reflects continuing weakness in agriculture. Except in Georgia, loans outstanding from the Production Credit Association fell in every District state in the first quarter relative to the previous quarter. The poultry industry is reeling from the side effects of the Payment-In-Kind program. Feed grain price increases of $10-30 per ton have resulted in a 2-5 cents per dozen climb in the cost of egg production. Large supplies, a declining export market, and weak domestic demand have led to a sharp drop in egg prices here. A substantial improvement in the weather has allowed farmers to make up much of their planting, but corn and cotton crops remain behind schedule, and yield reductions on late-planted corn are possible. Corn supplies are likely to be below normal in southern states in July and August. Panel of Economists Our panel of economists is almost evenly divided in its recommendations for monetary policy. Half believe that current Fed policy is appropriate, and half think that money supply growth should be reduced to a steady rate, ranging from 5 to 10 percent. Similarly, about half of those surveyed expect inflation to average 4 percent in 1983; the remaining members anticipate a more rapid acceleration in prices. Almost all expect inflation to reach at least 5-6 percent in 1984. By a narrow majority, they look for the foreign exchange rate of the dollar to fall this year. The most frequently cited signs of local recovery continue to center on the construction industry-housing and commercial building, real estate, and lumber manufacturing. However, a few respondents mention improving labor markets, increases in consumer spending, and some upturn in manufacturing. No pattern is evident in regard to the next phase of recovery. Nearly everyone on our panel regards housing demand as strong enough to sustain the current pace of construction activity.