Indications from the Third District in May are that business activity is generally on the upswing. Local manufacturers report substantial improvement in business conditions since March. Retailers say sales at area stores are growing steadily. Loan activity has turned mixed recently; retail lending has gained ground but commercial loans have slipped slightly. In the construction industry, overall activity is healthy. Third District contacts foresee these trends continuing for the next six months. Gains in industrial activity and retail sales are expected to continue at a brisk pace into the fall. In the banking sector, declining interest rates should reinforce current diverging lending trends. Strong demand for housing will bolster residential construction, according to builders, but commercial demand looks weak. Real Estate and Construction Representatives of the Third District construction industry indicate that construction activity is in good shape in May. Real estate brokers report a steady increase in sales at current mortgage rates, with more sales spilling over from pre-owned homes into the market for new units. As a result, residential construction is showing the first real signs of strength in over two-and-a-half years. Builders say demand is sufficient to sustain, if not boost, the current pace of residential activity, but expansion at the present rate will press on already tight supplies of building materials. Commercial construction business has also improved recently, despite relatively high vacancy rates. Commercial developers, however, say demand for office space is very weak and expect office-building to wind down considerably. Manufacturing Respondents to the Business Outlook Survey indicate that industrial activity in the Third District continues to pick up steam. The gains reported in April and May are on a par with the vigorous growth recorded earlier this year, providing further evidence that a sustained recovery is underway. Specific indications of the pick-up include booming new orders and shipments. Producer backlogs have also increased for the first time since mid-1979, and delivery times are getting longer. Inventory liquidation continues, but some employers have begun adding to payrolls and extending working hours as activity levels have climbed. Survey respondents are very confident that industrial rebuilding will continue and are projecting more gains for the next six months. Expanding new orders and shipments are forecast by four out of five respondents to the May survey, and businessmen are planning to hire additional workers and to lengthen the average workweek by late fall. In addition, modest growth in stock levels is foreseen, and increased outlays for capital equipment are in the works. Increased activity is pushing industrial prices up slightly in May, according to survey results. Input costs have risen at just over one-quarter of area plants, and a few reports of price hikes for finished products have surfaced this month, too. Respondents foresee further escalation in raw material prices by November and, to a lesser extent, are planning to boost their own prices over that time, as well. Retail Sales at Third District department stores have climbed steadily through April and into May. Dollar volume is right where retail executives expected it to be, about 5 percent to 6 percent ahead of a year ago. Merchants say an improving economic climate has buoyed consumers' confidence and, as big tax refunds keep rolling in, customers are parting with more dollars. In addition, this spring's excellent weather is credited with taking the edge off the usual post-Easter sales slump. Activity remains good across the board including some new movement in durables, especially household furnishings, which are benefiting from the housing pick-up. Retailers predict that sales will continue to grow over the next six months. Declining unemployment rates and an expanding economy are expected to provide an increasingly strong stimulus to sales. Larger tax refunds will still be a factor, according in contacts, and the mid-summer tax cut also should give retail business, particularly durable goods, a boost. Merchants are projecting that, by November, sales activity will be 6 percent to 8 percent ahead of the year before. Stock levels are about even with those of a year ago, and retailers report a little easing in their tight grip on inventories as sales have improved. Inventories remain very lean, nonetheless, and there are no plans at the present time for further rebuilding. Financial Loan activity at Third District banks has turned mixed since the last Redbook. C&I loan volume, as expected, has dropped slightly since March, owing to weaker commercial loan demand and cutbacks in below-prime lending, according to contacts. Reports of commercial loan volume now range from 6 percent below a year ago to 4 percent above a year ago. Retail loan activity, on the other hand, is building slowly. Although interest rates are still high enough to keep a somewhat tight lid on demand, consumers' attitudes toward credit have improved this spring, according to bankers. In the wake of a push by lenders, consumer loan volume has risen by 5 percent to 10 percent from a year ago. Area banking contacts say these trends in borrowing are likely to continue into the fourth quarter. Lenders expect that demand for commercial loans will be soft for the next few months. The shift to the bond market is likely to be enhanced by further declines in interest rates, and a "hesitating" economic recovery should keep capital investment plans flat until fall. Lower rates, however, are likely to bolster retail lending activity, especially if economic indicators continue to point to strength. The prime rate has held steady at 10.50 percent at major banks in the Third District. Pressures are building, according to bankers, that should push rates down between 50 and 100 basis points by the middle of the third quarter. These pressures include good inflation news and weak demand for commercial credit. By fall, however, much of the downward pressure should begin to disappear as more consistent economic growth awakens business loan demand. Deposit flows are still very strong in May, although activity has settled down recently. Demand deposits are a healthy 4 percent to 6 percent ahead on a year-over-year basis, down slightly from March levels. Bankers attribute that slide to April seasonal problems and a surge of IRA activity at tax time. Time deposit growth has slowed as well, indicating that the shift to MMDAs may be nearing completion. In fact, some outflows from MMDAs have been reported. Nevertheless, time deposits remain far ahead of year-ago levels.