Overview A broadly based economic expansion appears to have gotten underway in the Fifth District in recent weeks. In the manufacturing sector, shipments and new orders rose across a wide front. Order backlogs, employment, and the average work week also increased among manufacturers. District retailers also report gains in activity over the month, with sales and relative sales of big ticket items having both increased. In addition, the construction industry has begun to gain support from the housing sector, at least in the metropolitan and resort areas. The outlook among District businesses is generally positive. Prices remain relatively stable. Inventories, despite modest recent increases, are at comfortable levels. Manufacturing Gains in shipments, orders, and order backlogs have been widespread among Fifth District manufacturers in recent weeks. Most industries appear to be sharing in these gains, but some, like textiles and furniture, seem to be leading the way. Also, these recent gains are beginning to affect the production side. Manufacturing employment edged up over the month, while the length of the average work week rose across a broad front. Stocks of materials were up slightly, but finished goods on hand held steady. Nonetheless, total inventories seem to be very nearly in line with desired levels. Current plant and equipment capacity, however, remains somewhat in excess of present needs. Consumption Most evidence points to a fairly substantial rebound in consumer spending since our last survey. Sales appear to have advanced broadly in most areas, although some rural areas appear to be lagging in this respect. Retailers experienced increases in sales and in relative sales of big ticket items over the month. Our directors also note improved levels of consumer activity in most areas. The most widespread gains appear to have been in autos, although other durables and non-durables have also done well. Furniture and appliance lines are getting support from both primary and replacement markets. Activity in the housing sector has picked up sharply in some areas so that builders and new owners are actively furnishing new or recently purchased houses. Despite the increase in sales, retail inventories are reported to have risen slightly in the past few weeks. Nonetheless, total stocks are well in line with desired levels. The feeling appears to be that retailers will continue to maintain very trim inventory positions, at best allowing their growth to keep pace with sales. Housing and Construction Fifth District construction and real estate activity continues to vary widely from sector to sector and from region to region. To the extent that it is possible to generalize, housing construction and sales appear much improved in the metropolitan and resort areas. In most other areas of the District, with only a few exceptions, the residential sector continues sluggish to severely depressed. There is generally thought to be very little inventory of new, finished homes and prices are characterized as stable to firming. By and large, current construction in the commercial sector consists of projects in their later stages. There appears to be little work in the pipeline. Estimates of the time before any pickup run generally in the 6-12 month range. Materials prices are coming under upward pressure and in some cases, e.g., lumber, have risen substantially. Wages, on the other hand, are generally stable, and have been for some time. On balance, construction costs would not appear to be in for any major shocks originating within the District. Banking and Finances Business loan demand has been flat to slightly declining recently while consumer demand has been stable to slightly rising. Mortgage rates have generally declined to the 12-13 percent range and activity is up significantly. There is a feeling that current mortgage rates will permit a modest but sustainable recovery in housing sales and construction. Most depository institutions seem to feel that total MMDAs consist of about 10-50 percent new money. Agriculture District farm credit conditions during the first quarter of 1983 remained much the same as in the previous quarter but showed signs of slight improvement over the situation a year ago. Further declines in interest rates and continued improvement in bank fund availability highlighted conditions for the second consecutive quarter. By and large, liquidity conditions at rural banks eased again, while farm loan demand remained soft. Both loan repayment rates and requests for renewals took a modest turn for the better, compared with those a year earlier. Farmland values increased for the second quarter in a row, rising moderately over the revised previous-quarter level but remaining under a year ago.