Summary Reports from the 12th District indicate some signs of moderation in District economic activity entering 1996, although robust performance in several states continues. Holiday retail sales figures generally were disappointing, notably in California. There are signs of weakening demand in a few manufacturing industries, but the electronics sector remains strong. Loan activity is moderate to strong, with reports of a significant expansion of consumer loans in Southern California. Business Sentiment District respondents revised downward their expectations for national and regional economic conditions between late November and early January. The fraction of respondents expecting slowing GDP growth and rising national unemployment increased. Among respondents, 38 percent now predict slowing GDP growth and 49 percent predict higher unemployment over the next year, up from 8 percent and 18 percent in November. However, none of the respondents predicts a recession in 1996. Most respondents continue to expect that District growth will be more rapid than in the nation as a whole, but they are somewhat pessimistic about future housing starts and consumer spending in the District, with higher percentages of respondents predicting weakening in these areas compared to November. Retail Trade and Services Holiday season sales reports are mixed. Respondents in California, Arizona, Washington, and Hawaii generally report weak sales growth relative to the 1994 holiday season. Reports from other states vary, although overall sales appear to be below expectations, with only modest increases in boom states such as Utah, Oregon, and Nevada. Strength in retail electronics sales was generally offset by weakness in sales of other goods, particularly apparel. Other reports suggest that some small firms were hurt by the lack of Small Business Administration loans during the federal government shutdown. Tourist trade also was hurt by the shutdown, which reduced government-sponsored conference travel and sales for businesses in or adjacent to National Parks. Skiing and related hotel revenues remain lower than usual due to continued unseasonably mild weather in traditional winter tourist regions. Manufacturing Reports on District manufacturing activity are mixed. Utah machinery producers continue to benefit from strong sales in Utah, Nevada, and Idaho, and demand for skilled labor in Utah, particularly machinists, continues to outstrip supply. However, one Nevada respondent noted that declining iron and steel prices are a troubling sign for future manufacturing activity. Several respondents noted continued excess capacity and rising inventories at some San Francisco Bay Area semiconductor manufacturing firms. General electronics demand, however, is reported to be strong in the San Francisco Bay Area and in Washington state, where order backlogs are high and components remain in short supply. Demand for wood products is off in the Northwest, due to cutbacks in construction activity nationally. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Production costs for grain growers remain very high. The resulting high grain prices are squeezing dairy and cattle producers, causing high supply and low prices for cattle in the District. In Central California, final cotton yields were very low and growing costs high, due to insect problems. In Idaho, a respondent notes that national demand for fishery products is low and prices are declining. A more upbeat report from Nevada suggests that strong copper prices and steady gold prices are sustaining the metal mining industry, which experienced substantial employment growth over the second half of 1995. Real Estate and Construction Reports suggest mostly solid residential building and sales activity. Home loans and housing starts reportedly are increasing in California. Construction activity is holding steady in Arizona, but the construction labor market is not as tight as it was earlier in the year. In Washington, a respondent notes that real estate loans have increased significantly over the last two months, particularly for multi-family housing. Prices are rising in many areas of Washington and Oregon, but they have reportedly dropped significantly in Boise, Idaho and in south central Washington, in the latter case due to cutbacks at the federally funded Hanford nuclear facility. Financial Institutions Solid bank performance continues throughout most of the District, although employment in the financial sector continues to shrink. Bank profits reportedly are high in Utah and Idaho, and in Washington conditions are generally good, albeit with signs of slight downward pressure on loan margins. Real estate loan demand reportedly is strong throughout the District. In Southern California, rapid expansion of consumer loans is reported, accompanied by only slight moderation in recent solid growth in commercial and industrial lending. In Central California, insurance employment is expected to increase due to the opening in Bakersfield of a new regional office for a large national insurance company.