Economic conditions appear to be improving modestly in much of the nation. Retail sales are up moderately in some districts. Manufacturing is gaining strength in some regions and industries, although several districts report weaker foreign demand for some manufactured goods. Prices are generally steady to up slightly at both the wholesale and retail levels. Home purchases continue to strengthen, but homebuilding has picked up in only a few regions. Mortgage lending continues to be the only source of strength in loan demand. Delayed planting could reduce production of some crops. Stable oil prices and low natural gas prices are keeping oil drilling in check. Consumer Spending Retail sales vary across districts. While there are no reports of substantial improvement, the overall situation is somewhat brighter than that described in the last Beige Book. A few districts describe gains as slight or moderate, while others report lackluster sales. Richmond reports a slight decline in sales, and Atlanta notes that spending increases of recent months have stalled. Sales are uneven in several districts, with soft goods selling better than consumer durables. But sales advances in the Chicago district were led by housing-related durable goods. Unseasonably warm weather has brought improved sales of summer goods in the Northeast, but skepticism remains about future gains. Retailers in several districts are also concerned about future sales gains in light of shaky consumer confidence and uncertainty about the course of the economy. A few districts, however, report optimism about future sales, particularly for items related to purchases of both new and existing houses. While retailers in some districts are comfortable with current inventory levels, others continue to emphasize keeping stocks lean and under tight control. Only modest increases in retail prices are reported. Most reporting districts say that new car sales remain weak. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity seems to be improving overall, but several districts report slower export growth. Prices of inputs are generally stable. Philadelphia reports activity picking up in most major industries, and Boston notes a recent pickup in both sales and orders. Cleveland says that manufacturing output appears to have bottomed as capital goods industries near a trough, but New York and San Francisco report continued slow activity. Steel industry respondents see little change in production, with gradual improvement in domestic markets offset by softer export markets. St. Louis reports mixed activity with some firms expanding but many still contracting due to defense cuts spreading to smaller firms. In the Chicago district, consumer durables producers are doing better than heavy equipment producers. Automobile production is improving, as is production of goods going into new homes. Weakness continues in the production and sales of capital goods. Dallas reports that oil field machinery production has declined slightly due to decreased domestic drilling. Views of the outlook vary among respondents, with stagnation expected in the Boston district until early 1992 but healthy gains expected in the Philadelphia district for the rest of this year. New York respondents see no significant turnaround before late summer, while Cleveland and Richmond respondents are optimistic for the second half of the year. Construction and Real Estate The improvement in home sales reported in the last Beige Book continues and is being translated into increased construction activity in some areas. While buyer interest and purchases still are found mainly in the market for existing homes, reduced inventories of new houses are leading to increases in starts in several parts of the Midwest. In the Atlanta district, tight lending conditions are restricting the rebound in residential sales and construction. And in the St. Louis district, new construction remains mixed in spite of lower inventories of unsold homes. Nonresidential construction remains weak. Little commercial construction appears to be under way, as vacancy rates are high and leasing activity sluggish. Construction activity is being supported by public projects in the Atlanta and Richmond districts, but Dallas reports a significant slowdown in most types of public construction. Banking and Finance Bank lending continues to be weak in the eight districts reporting on financial developments, despite a pickup in demand for home mortgage loans. Much of the strength in mortgage lending stems from refinancing rather than new purchases. Demand for business and consumer loans is weak, except for some modest strength in consumer lending in the Cleveland and Kansas City districts. While sluggish growth in business loans in the Richmond district is attributed mainly to week loan demand, some supply restraints were also noted. Small and mid-sized banks in the New York district report slower repayment for all types of consumer loans. Some respondents expect continued sluggish growth in lending even after the recession ends. Agriculture and Natural Resources Extreme weather conditions in several districts have hampered spring planting. Production estimates are being lowered for several crops. Heavy rains have delayed spring planting in parts of the Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City districts. Crops affected include cotton, soybeans, peanuts, rice, corn, and grain sorghum. Dry conditions in west Texas and the Texas panhandle have reduced production estimates for the areas wheat and cotton crops. Richmond reports generally favorable agricultural prospects, and Minneapolis notes that conditions are good in the Dakotas. Kansas City reports a high level of farm income, with strong cattle prices continuing to reduce the impact of weak crop prices. Oil drilling in the Dallas and Kansas City districts has declined despite stable oil prices. The decline stems partly from low natural gas prices, which are down 20 percent from a year ago.