Overview District economic activity in late May and early June was, on balance, not much improved from the month before, but the attitude of businesses about the near-term outlook remained optimistic. Retail sales were lower and manufacturing activity was flat. Almost no new commercial construction was started and housing activity was lackluster. Sluggish growth in the volume of business loans was attributed primarily to weak loan demand, although some supply constraints were noted. On the brighter side, retailers and manufacturers are optimistic about their prospects, export volume rose at District ports and the outlook for the District's farming sector appeared promising. Consumer Spending Our regular survey of retailers suggested that retail activity declined slightly in the past month. Reports of lower sales, including sales of big-ticket items, outnumbered reports of higher sales. Shopper traffic was slightly lower, as was retail employment. Retail prices showed little change, even though wholesale prices were reported to be somewhat higher. Respondents were optimistic about retail activity over the next six months. About half expected shopper traffic and sales to increase, but only a small percentage anticipated any change in employment. Prices at the wholesale and retail levels were expected to rise. Manufacturing Responses to our regular survey of manufacturers indicated that District factory activity remained stable. Manufacturers reported almost no change in shipments, prices, export orders, capital expenditures, and employment. New orders increased slightly, while inventories and order backlogs decreased slightly. About two-thirds of the responding manufacturers viewed poor sales as their single most important problem. Manufacturers remained optimistic about business conditions and their prospects for the next six months, although somewhat less so than in our previous survey. About half of the manufacturers foresaw increases in shipments, new orders, and order backlogs. Respondents anticipated slight increases in capital expenditures and export orders, but they expected little change in inventories and employment. Port Activity Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that exports were higher and imports were generally unchanged in May from April. Compared with a year ago, export activity was higher and import activity was lower. Exports are expected to increase faster than imports over the next six months. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity increased significantly over the Memorial Day weekend compared with last year. Many beach areas were reportedly booked to capacity while most other beach and mountain areas experienced increases in bookings which they attributed to the unseasonably hot weather. A majority of the respondents expected tourist activity this summer to be above last year's level. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that the demand for commercial and industrial loans remained weak in April and late May. Among businesses that requested loans, smaller firms slightly outnumbered larger ones, and few new businesses sought financing. Loan delinquency rates edged down. We also asked retailers and manufacturers about credit conditions. A majority indicated that loan activity was sluggish in their respective areas. Most felt that a moderate number of creditworthy borrowers had been refused loans recently. Most also indicated, however, that loan demand was weaker. Housing Results from our survey of home builders suggested that housing activity was mixed in recent weeks. The number of reports of increases in housing starts about equaled the number of reports of decreases. Although some builders noted an increase in sales, most reported that sales were unchanged to lower. Low- and medium-priced homes apparently sold better than high-priced homes. Nearly all builders reported that home prices were steady. A few indicated that credit conditions were stringent. Nonresidential Construction Commercial construction firms contacted by telephone noted few signs of an upturn in nonresidential building. These firms reported that little private commercial construction was underway and indicated that much of their current work was public projects, bridges, highways, and government buildings. Some respondents, however, suggested that the decline in activity had bottomed out, although none expected a strong upturn. The outlook in the Washington, D.C. area was said to be especially uncertain. Several respondents reported that industry profit margins were extremely thin and that in some cases firms were bidding jobs at below variable costs. Agriculture Despite scarce rainfall and record high temperatures across much of the District in late May, our contacts in agriculture indicated that prospects were generally favorable as of the end of the first week of June. The harvest of small grains and peaches was in progress, and preliminary assessments indicated that yields for these crops would be excellent. The spring planting of corn, soybeans, and the transplanting of tobacco were nearing completion and were ahead of last year's pace. The condition of most crops was good to excellent with only scattered reports of heat stress and disease damage.