The District economy is flat, but some signs of strengthening are evident. Retail sales have improved slightly and residential construction has rebounded in some areas. Most service-producing sectors continue to add employees. While some manufacturers are expanding their operations, many are still contracting and commercial construction remains depressed. Lending activity has increased in recent months. Heavy rains have delayed cotton and rice plantings. Electricity generation for industrial usage is flat to slightly lower. Consumer Spending Some contacts report slight increases in retail sales; in the Louisville, St. Louis and Memphis areas, however, little or no strengthening is evident. Nominal retail sales growth in Arkansas has dropped to a 1 percent rate of increase in recent months. Sales of durables in Arkansas have been hindered by consumer wariness about economic conditions and increases in required down payments. Auto sales remain well below year-ago levels, though some contacts report increasing sales in May. Louisville auto dealers describe spring sales as "acceptable" but still below those of a year earlier. Manufacturing Manufacturing conditions are mixed. In St. Louis, some manufacturers report a recent upturn in orders, but relatively few have expanded their workforce. Approximately 2,000 St. Louis workers were let go when an automaker closed an assembly plant in late May. More than 300 engineering and manufacturing workers have been laid off in recent weeks by a major St. Louis defense contractor following the loss of a new military aircraft contract, and an additional 200 layoffs are expected by year-end. Defense cuts have caused layoffs at smaller District firms as well. Weak auto and housing sales have led to lower earnings for a major chemicals manufacturer. Almost 1,000 workers have been recalled by a Louisville home appliance manufacturer in anticipation of increased demand for refrigerators as the housing industry turns around. Construction and Real Estate Single-family home sales continue to increase throughout the District. Contacts in Little Rock and Memphis indicate inventories of new and existing homes are declining; meanwhile, prices are holding steady or rising slightly. New home construction, however, is mixed. Contacts in Memphis, citing lower interest rates and drier weather, report single-family housing starts in May were substantially above their April and year-earlier levels. Contacts in St. Louis, however, report residential construction is still well below year-earlier levels and believe the industry has not bottomed out. Banking and Finance Total loans on the books of a sample of 93 small and mid-size District banks increased slightly in April and May after declining during the previous two months. Still, loan demand throughout the District remains weak. One St. Louis banker noted his customers, primarily small and mid-sized companies, were still concerned about the economic outlook and were hesitant to borrow for investment purposes. Agriculture Cotton and rice plantings have been delayed substantially in Mississippi, Arkansas and western Tennessee because of record or near-record rainfall. Mississippi appears to be the hardest hit of the District states: as much as 20 percent of the intended cotton acreage and 40 percent of the intended rice acreage will not be planted. Many areas are reporting wheat crop losses of 50 percent or more because of moisture-related diseases. On the other hand, the corn, soybean and tobacco crops are in good condition. Energy and Natural Resources Above-average temperatures in May boosted electricity output significantly. A survey of District utilities found that peak electricity generation at many plants was the highest in several years. Generation for industrial usage, however, was mostly flat to slightly lower at major utilities. Year-to-date coal production is down almost 10 percent. Many District utilities continue to "test- burn" low-sulfur Western coal, which reduces demand for higher- sulfur Midwestern coal. Production at Southern Pine lumber mills rose in March, but remains below last year's pace. Transportation and Distribution Year-to-date passenger traffic is down slightly at all major District airports. Air cargo shipments in Memphis, however, have increased more than 15 percent. Airport officials report that lower air fares, the end of the Gulf War and lessened security measures are expected to boost airline traffic. Barge activity is mixed. Little Rock and Louisville report increased movements over last year, while St. Louis reports a decline. The rates charged for barge transportation in St. Louis, a barometer of river traffic, have fallen to record lows because of declining grain shipments.