Reports on District developments remain soft to mixed. Sales results were very uneven among District department stores during April and May. Homebuilders are hopeful that an upturn in the existing home market will soon spur increased demand for new homes. Office leasing activity remains somewhat sluggish and vacancy rates have continued to rise. The May unemployment rate rose in New Jersey but edged down in New York. Senior loan officers at small and mid-sized banks reported flat overall demand for consumer loans is moderate to weak. Consumer Spending Sales results at District department stores were mixed during April and May. Some contacts noted an improvement with sales better than planned while others reported continued sluggishness. Over-the-year changes in April ranged from -7.8 percent to +5.0 percent and in May, from -2.0 percent to +6.5 percent with stores fairly evenly divided as to gains and declines. Women' s clothing and accessories sold well at most stores in April as did cosmetics and men's sportswear. Respondents with better-than-anticipated May sales attributed much of the gain to unseasonably warm weather, noting that the fastest-selling items were swimwear, weekend wear, sandals and other summer apparel. The pattern for home furnishings was mixed in both April and May, with one chain noting a pickup after several slow months but others experiencing further slackness. Due to tight monitoring and, in some cases, to better-than-expected sales, inventories are generally at comfortable levels, though one chain reported a level somewhat above plan. Contacts remain cautious about the outlook for consumer spending citing the uncertainties about the course of the economy as well as the possibility that May's strength may represent sales borrowed from June. Residential Construction and Real Estate Interest on the part of potential buyers is reportedly strong in much of the District as a result of lower home prices and mortgage rates, but apparently its initial effect has been primarily on the resale market. Homebuilders are hopeful that this upturn in the existing home market will soon spur increased demand for new homes from sellers wanting to move up. The New York State Association of Realtors noted that, for the first time in five years, existing home sales increased from February to March north of New York City, and the Buffalo area reported an 11 percent over-the-year increase in April resales. Recently in Manhattan there were, for the first time, auctions of condominium and cooperative apartments; in the suburbs, this technique has been used quite successfully in the past couple of years to reduce surplus stocks of new single-family homes. Office leasing activity has remained somewhat sluggish in recent weeks and additional space continues to be marketed due to new completions and further consolidations and restructuring. As a result, office vacancy rates have been rising in many parts of the District. At the end of the first quarter, the vacancy rate in the 15 northern New Jersey counties, for example, averaged more than 22 percent, up almost 4 percentage points from a year earlier. Over- the-year increases of 2 percentage points or more were common in several other areas such as Long Island, Westchester County and Manhattan. Vacancy rates in Manhattan are reportedly at their highest levels since the 1970s. Manufacturing Manufacturing firms contacted in the District report continued weak sales with none anticipating any significant turnaround until late summer or fall, at the earliest. A producer of construction equipment sees the weakness spreading as the anemic housing and government sectors have been joined in recent months by a noticeable slowing in demand from the auto industry. A small producer of electric machinery was the only firm reporting a jump in sales, but the pickup has only been enough to bring sales up to year-ago levels. Exports were frequently reported to be growing faster than domestic sales, although more than half of the firms contacted felt their export growth rate is declining. Most respondents have lowered their prices in recent months to shore up sales, but none plan to offer large price discounts in the near future. Half of the firms surveyed have reduced their employment levels significantly in recent months in the face of weak demand but plan no further significant layoffs over the coming months. Other Business Activity The May unemployment rate rose in New Jersey to 6.8 percent from 6.5 percent in April (seasonally adjusted), but edged down in New York State to 7.4 percent after a 0.7 percentage point jump in April. Unemployment rates in the District are no longer below the national average as they had been for several years and employment has been growing much more slowly than nationally in recent years. This trend primarily reflects layoffs and consolidations in New York City and on Long Island as well as sluggishness in northern New Jersey. Upstate New York had been registering sizable employment gains until the recession began. Budgetary problems that continue to plague local and state governments in much of the District cast a shadow on the employment outlook. Some 80 New York City workers were recently notified that they may be laid off by July 1 and both New York State and New Jersey continue to mention the possibility of cutbacks of state employees. In an attempt to forestall layoffs as well as higher taxes, Bridgeport, Connecticut is filing for protection from creditors under Chapter 9 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code. The April surveys of purchasing managers in Buffalo and Rochester showed somewhat conflicting patterns. In the Buffalo survey, 84 percent of firms reported stable to improved new orders in April, up from 72 percent in March. In Rochester, however, although fewer firms noted a worsening in April than in March, the 26 percent that did see a deterioration was still almost four times greater than in February. Financial Developments Most senior loan officers surveyed at small and midsized banks in the Second District reported that overall demand for consumer loans is moderate to weak. The majority of respondents also noted that demand for consumer installment loans is lower than a year ago. Most bank officers characterized the growth of automobile, credit card, and home equity loans over the last three months as slow to flat. Those banks that typically offer lines of credit on home equity reported that commitment fees have not changed in the last three months. Most bankers said current home equity lending is mainly to new borrowers rather than takedowns on existing credit lines. The majority of respondents noted a slowdown in payment schedules for all types of consumer loans, though a few stated that the slowing was confined to automobile loans. However, most officers stated that outstanding balances are not rising and indicated that delinquencies are unchanged from three months ago. Several respondents noted some decline in the creditworthiness of borrowers due to high levels of debt, layoffs, and reductions in salaries. Nonetheless, two thirds of all respondents stated that, compared to three months ago, their institution is just as willing to extend credit for consumer installment loans.