Economic conditions in much of the Twelfth District are weak, although some bright spots have emerged recently. Most notably, lower interest rates have stimulated real estate sales activity in many parts of the District. In addition, some improvement in soft- goods sales has been noted in recent weeks. Manufacturing activity continues slow, with most firms taking a cautious approach toward investment plans. Agricultural conditions are mixed in the West, with many areas affected by drought and low commodity prices. Financial institutions continue to report weak growth in loan volume, although lower interest rates have spurred mortgage refinancing activity. Business Sentiment The economic outlook of Twelfth District business leaders continued to improve in June. Three quarters of respondents still expect GNP to grow less than 2.5 percent over the next four quarters, but the proportion of respondents anticipating slow growth has fallen steadily since the end of 1990. Expectations improved considerably for investment and spending. Eighty percent of western business leaders now foresee business investment and consumer spending improving or staying the same during the next four quarters. The outlook for housing starts also improved, with 70 percent of respondents projecting better housing starts over the next four quarters. Wages and Prices Wage and price increases in the Twelfth District remain modest. First-quarter consumer prices were only 2.7 percent above their year-earlier level in Phoenix, while consumer prices fell 1.6 percent during the last six months in Salt Lake City. Price increases for retail goods remain moderate. Food prices have risen at close to a 3 percent rate in recent months, and are expected to rise less than 3 percent for the remainder of the year. A health- care industry executive expects the rate of increase in health care costs to moderate slightly in 1991, but still to exceed the general inflation rate. Most wage increases still are reported in the 3 to 5 percent range. Retail Trade and Services Conditions in the Twelfth District's retail sector are mixed. Two soft-goods retailers report that retail sales have picked up in recent weeks, prompting optimism for a reasonably good second half of 1991. Retail inventories remain tightly controlled. Many reports suggest that lower interest rates have not yet bolstered consumer durable goods sales. New-car sales still are slow in much of the West, although used cars are reported to be selling well. Advertising volume continues to decline for both television and newspapers. Manufacturing Twelfth District manufacturing activity is reported slow in many areas. Most firms are taking a cautious approach toward investment plans because of continued economic uncertainty. However, a survey of Puget Sound area businesses suggests that 67 percent anticipate increased capital spending during the next twelve months, and Boeing is undertaking a major expansion of its Puget Sound area facilities. Aluminum manufacturers report excess capacity and weak demand, pushing prices down 35 to 40 percent. Farm machinery sales are slow in Idaho because of drought and weak commodity prices. Conversely, heavy construction equipment sales are reported up over a year ago in some parts of the District. Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Agricultural and resource industry conditions are mixed in the West. Agriculture in California is in good shape outside of the areas hit hardest by the drought and freeze. Dairy farmers are facing difficult conditions because of low milk prices. Cattle prices remain at record levels, which has caused increased costs and reduced profits for feedlot operators. Wood product prices increased in recent weeks, while log supplies remain tight as a result of strict restrictions on timber harvests in federal forests. Construction and Real Estate Construction and real estate activity in the West is reported to have improved in recent months. Increased housing sales are attributed at least in part to lower interest rates. Increased residential activity was reported throughout California. Sales of existing homes in California rose 12 percent between March and April for the third consecutive monthly increase. The median home price rose 1.7 percent during the month, to a new record high at a level 4.9 percent above its year-earlier level. In Oregon, the average home sales price is reported up 22 percent from last year. Commercial activity is reported to be stable to weak. In Los Angeles, leasing is down 19 percent in the first four months of 1991 compared to the same period in 1990, despite improvement since the beginning of the year. Several new commercial construction projects have started in Southern California. Overall construction activity is strong in Idaho and Utah. Financial Institutions Twelfth District financial institutions report relatively stable conditions. Loan growth remains weak in most areas, but lower interest rates are stimulating increased demand for mortgage refinancing. However, one California banker reports that some of the increased refinancing activity is substituting for home-equity loans. In California, credit card balances are reported to be increasing, while in Utah, consumer delinquencies have improved in recent months. Some banks report high liquidity as a result of strong growth in money market deposit accounts.