First District business conditions have acquired a slightly more positive tone, according to contacts reached in the third week in October. Half the retail respondents report that sales in September and early October were flat compared with year-ago levels; for the rest, sales rose at a close-to-normal pace. The majority of manufacturing respondents also indicate that sales and orders were even with or slightly above year-ago figures. In most New England states, residential real estate markets have stabilized; prices are flat and volume is rising. Contacts in nonbank financial services report mixed trends, but most have seen increases in assets under management. Retail First District retail contacts have seen a slight improvement in prevailing conditions. Retailers who faced mixed results in past months noted some recent steadying in sales, while those who previously reported increases did so again. None attributes this modest strengthening to improved consumer optimism. All believe their firms' promotional efforts were especially effective. With no change in the cost of goods sold, retail contacts continue discounting to attract bargain-conscious consumers. Inventories remain closely monitored, but four respondents plan to expand the number of store locations. Employment is increasing only to staff new locations, while wages are unchanged or rising modestly. Manufacturing Demand for manufactured goods has been mixed in recent months. the majority of respondents report changes in sales and orders compared to a year earlier ranging from zero to 7 percent. A couple had significantly batter results, while others experienced declining demand. Sales of electronics and some housing-related products increased. Sales of automotive products were highly variable, while those for aircraft and defense goods declined. Markets in Japan and Europe (especially the United Kingdom) were described as weak, although several manufacturers report doing quite well overseas because of gains in market share. Manufacturing contacts report that their selling prices range from below to very slightly above year-ago levels. Increased input prices for paper, rubber, some chemicals, and imported goods have put pressure on margins for some companies. About half the respondents have cut U.S. employment in the past year, by up to 16 percent. At the others, employment has been increasing, by as much as 5 percent. Capital spending was most often described as flat, and has been concentrated in cost-reducing or efficiency-improving equipment. On balance, manufacturers expressed cautious optimism about the economy over the next year. Most project 1993 to be similar to or slightly better than 1992. Respondents indicate concern over weakness in foreign economies and dampened consumer confidence in the United States. Positive factors include a pent-up consumer demand for autos and housing and improved business and household balance sheets. Residential Real Estate The residential real estate market in most New England states has stopped declining, with prices flat since spring, and volume up as much as 20 to 30 percent over year-ago numbers. A large stock of properties continues to overhang the market, and transactions are still concentrated at the low end of the market, although selected areas are seeing an increase in "trade-up" activity. Connecticut is the exception, with prices still falling, especially in areas which are seeing additional layoffs in defense-related industries. Most contacts attribute the current real estate stagnation to high unemployment and low consumer confidence, although many realtors believe that consumer confidence will pick up after the election, regardless of the outcome. Nonbank Financial Services Insurance companies report mixed sales trends, but firms seeing increases slightly outnumber those with declines. Most respondents experienced decreasing employment for the year, with the rest reporting little change. Wage costs have kept up with general inflation. A majority of respondents saw decreases in their pension business, which they attribute to employer sensitivity to continuing weakness in the insurers' commercial real estate portfolios. Sales of personal life insurance and retail investment products, such as annuities and mutual funds, rose. Investment management companies surveyed also report increases in assets under management. Respondents attribute growth in investment products to consumers' switching away from bank deposits because of low interest rates. Outlook The nonprofit New England Economic Project (NEEP) released its semi- annual forecast on October 21. According to this forecast, total nonagricultural employment in the region will stabilize in the first quarter of 1993 and begin to grow in the second quarter, albeit very gradually. NEEP predicts that half the net jobs added in the region in the first year of recovery will be in services; another third of the job growth is expected to be in trade. Manufacturing employment is not expected to improve until the third quarter of 1993.