Developments in the Second District since the last report remained basically mixed. Most contacts at District department stores reported stronger-than-planned sales in September and positive over- the-year changes. Moreover, office leasing activity showed some improvement as firms continue to avail themselves of lower rents and other concessions in order to upgrade their quarters. The residential construction market was mixed, however, with homebuilders in upstate New York reporting somewhat stronger buying interest than those in downstate communities. New York's unemployment rate rose in September while New Jersey's fell following August declines in both states. The latest Buffalo and Rochester purchasing managers' reports were less favorable than earlier. Most senior loan officers at small and midsized banks indicated no change in their willingness to lend. Consumer Spending Most contacts at District department stores reported stronger-than- planned sales in September and positive over-the-year changes. However, while generally pleased with the results, some retailers cited the later back-to-school shopping this year and extra promotional activity as major factors in September's strength. No one thought a turnaround in consumer sentiment had occurred and most said they were cautiously optimistic about what lies ahead. Year-to-year sales increases in September generally ranged from 4 to 16 percent. One chain reported a smaller-than-expected over-the-year decrease. Categories registering the greatest improvement were sports apparel, outerwear and bed and bath items. Inventories are reportedly in good shape-either on plan or a little below. Residential Construction and Real Estate The residential construction market remained mixed in recent weeks with homebuilders in upstate New York reporting somewhat stronger buying interest than those in downstate communities. In some New Jersey areas, plans are being revived and revised for projects that have been in default, and in New York City, several moderate-income housing developments have recently been started or soon will be underway. Developers report continuing problems in obtaining acquisition and construction loans, however, and observers note that most new homebuilding involves substantial amounts of internal financing or government subsidies. Office leasing activity showed some improvement as firms continue to avail themselves of lower rents and other concessions in order to upgrade their quarters. In addition, most areas report little or no new office space under construction at this time. As a result of these developments, several areas, including Long Island, Fairfield and Westchester counties and mid-Manhattan, have experienced a recent decline in office vacancy rates, although they remain at high levels. Other Business Activity District unemployment rates moved in opposite directions during September following August declines. New York's rate rose to 9.0 percent from 8.5 percent in August while New Jersey's rate, also at 9.0 percent in September, fell from 9.4 percent. Two developments are likely to boost construction employment. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey recently announced that it will build an additional international terminal at Newark Airport and that major projects are planned or already begun at La Guardia and Kennedy airports, including the first new passenger terminal at Kennedy since the 1960s. In another major construction project, New York City has embarked on a huge program to build or renovate 32 court facilities throughout the five boroughs over the next several years. In other news, a large discount chain has agreed to acquire and reopen 6 of the 11 Alexander Department Stores in the New York metropolitan area which closed earlier this year. Remington Products announced that it will remain in Bridgeport, Connecticut, thereby retaining 1100 jobs and probably repatriating some jobs from abroad as well. On the negative side, I.B.M. will reduce production of semiconductors and mainframe computers, probably resulting in layoffs at its factories in the District. The September survey of Buffalo purchasing managers showed much smaller percentages of firms reporting a rise in new orders and production following substantial improvements in these categories during August. The latest survey of Rochester purchasing managers also showed a sizable drop in the percentage anticipating an improvement in business conditions over the next three months. Financial Developments Most senior loan officers surveyed at small and midsized banks in the Second District indicated that their willingness to lend remained steady relative to two months ago, although the percentage of officers citing an increased willingness was somewhat higher than in the last survey. Almost all bankers reported that they would not ease their standards in response to the recently revised federal guidelines recommending less rigid loan-to-value ratios for construction and land development loans. A majority of respondents noted that overall loan demand remained sluggish. Largely due to refinancing activity, demand for residential mortgages continued to increase and consumer loan demand improved slightly. However, demand for commercial and industrial loans and nonresidential mortgages weakened. Almost all respondents reported either maintaining or lowering interest rates. A majority of officers indicated that delinquency rates for residential mortgages and commercial and industrial loans were unchanged to slightly lower during the preceding two months.