Summary District economic activity continues to expand, albeit modestly. Employment at manufacturing firms appears to have increased, while employment at nonmanufacturing firms has shown little change. Single-family housing construction remains substantially above its year-ago level throughout the District. All categories of loans at large District banks showed increases during the past two months. Record corn, soybean and rice yields have been reported in many areas of the District. Manufacturing District manufacturing firms continue to increase employment, with reports of employment growth outnumbering reports of decline. For example, an apparel maker announced that it will expand its Kentucky plant and hire an additional 1,000 workers, but a maker of household appliances, citing sluggish sales, will lay off 680 Louisville workers next month. In addition, a truck and tractor manufacturer in Kentucky plans to shift production from abroad, increasing employment by 140 in the District. Two paper manufacturers will open new plants in Kentucky, adding 650 jobs. In Indiana, another household appliance concern laid off 850 workers for both seasonal and cyclical reasons. In Tennessee, a carton-printing plant will close, eliminating 100 jobs, while a fireplace manufacturer increased employment by 195 because its headquarters moved from California. A St. Louis auto plant laid off 100 more workers than originally anticipated, but an area plastic container maker announced that it will triple the size of its plant, resulting in 200 additional jobs. A northeast Mississippi sportswear manufacturer is expanding its productive capacity and increasing its workforce by 100. Nonmanufacturing Most District nonmanufacturing firms report no significant employment changes; however, a few noteworthy exceptions exist. In St. Louis, a major telecommunications organization announced the relocation of its corporate headquarters to San Antonio, Texas, moving about 500 jobs and employees. In Louisville, a credit card processor will double its employment to 160 within the next year. Construction and Real Estate Builders in most parts of the District continue to report substantial year-over-year increases in single-family housing permits. Although activity in the booming northwest corner of Arkansas has recently slowed, housing construction throughout the state is expected to remain strong through year-end. In light of the low level of interest rates, some contacts note that sales activity is not especially vigorous; one agent attributed this to the difficulty potential buyers have raising a down payment. Banking and Finance Loans outstanding at 12 large District banks rose modestly in August and September after declining slightly in June and July. Total loans on the books of these banks rose 2.2 percent during August and September after declining 0.6 percent during the prior two months. Business loans rose 3 percent, real estate loans rose 1 percent and consumer loans were up 2.5 percent in August and September. In contrast, business loans declined 2.3 percent and real estate loans declined 1.7 percent in June and July. Consumer loans are up almost 5 percent since the end of May. Agriculture and Natural Resources Harvest reports throughout the District indicate good to excellent yields for corn, soybeans and rice. Record rice and soybean yields are expected in Arkansas, and contacts in Kentucky and Tennessee report record corn yields. The cotton harvest, on the other hand, continues to be hampered by adverse weather conditions; likewise, harvesting of the corn crop remains well behind normal in the northern parts of the District. Crop and livestock prices across the District are generally below last year's levels. Contacts in Arkansas and Mississippi report that farm machinery and equipment sales are down slightly from last year. Year-to-date Southern Pine lumber exports, while down 27 percent from an unusually high June level, are up 16 percent from the same period last year. With the exception of western Kentucky, District coal production on a year- to-date basis is down slightly from last year. Transportation Contacts report that barge activity has slowed recently because of the late fall harvest. The prospect of bumper corn and soybean crops, however, is expected to increase barge activity measurably in the near future. Aircraft operations on a year-to-date basis are up moderately at most major District airports, and the St. Louis airport is anticipating a record year in terms of passenger movements.