Overview District business conditions were uneven but, on balance, improved between mid-September and late October. Retail sales rose, and manufacturing activity edged higher. The residential real estate market improved somewhat, although the commercial real estate market remained sluggish. Tourism declined and was expected to remain weak throughout the fall. Activity at District ports fell. Loan conditions were unchanged, and District governments reported that tax revenues were meting their projections. In agriculture, slow- maturing summer crops delayed harvesting activity and the fall planting of small grains. Consumer Spending Our regular mail survey indicated that District retail activity improved in recent weeks. Respondents reported that sales and shopper traffic increased and that retail prices rose. Retailers indicated that employment was steady, but employee wages increased. Inventories apparently declined. Respondents were optimistic about their prospects for the next six months. They expected increases in all indicators except employment, which they believed would be unchanged. Manufacturing Manufacturers indicated that District factory activity strengthened slightly during the past six weeks. Respondents saw little change in most indicators, but they reported increases in shipments, new orders, and exports. Prices paid for raw materials rose, but the prices received by manufacturers were unchanged. Excess capacity continued to plague District manufacturers. Manufacturers were upbeat about their prospects for the next six months. Manufacturers expected increases in orders, shipments, and backlogs. Increases in employment, capital spending, and prices were also anticipated. Tourism Hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated that tourist activity for October declined compared to September and to a year ago. Respondents reported that fall bookings were below those of a year ago, primarily because of fewer convention bookings. Looking ahead, respondents expected tourist activity to remain weak throughout the fall. Ports Representatives at District ports, Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk), indicated that both imports and exports were lower in September than in August. Compared with a year ago, however, imports and exports were generally higher. During the next six months, exports were expected to increase at Charleston but to be unchanged at Baltimore and Hampton Roads. Finance District financial institutions contacted by telephone indicated that credit conditions were little changed in recent weeks. Respondents reported that commercial and consumer loan demand were steady. Rates on commercial loans were unchanged while rates on consumer loans were lower. Banks noted that residential mortgage activity, consisting mostly of refinancing, strengthened in September but weakened in October. Respondents reported that mortgage loan rates began to rise significantly in mid-October. Residential Real Estate Residential activity picked up modestly during the past six weeks according to a telephone survey of District realtors. Home prices were stable, and respondents noted that sales of homes in the mid- to-low price range, particularly to first-time homebuyers, were strong. The market for upscale homes, however, apparently remained soft. The residential market in Raleigh, North Carolina, was characterized as particularly strong, and the strength was apparently spilling over into the nearby Durham market. Commercial Real Estate Commercial activity remained sluggish, but realtors suggested that leasing activity had picked up somewhat in many areas of the District. The absorption of commercial space improved, particularly in suburban areas, but respondents noted that little new commercial development was underway. Leasing activity in Washington, D.C., however, decreased because of reduced demand for space by government agencies. State Budgets Government analysts contacted by telephone indicated that third quarter tax revenues were close to estimates in most District jurisdictions, lessening the likelihood of budget shortfalls. Revenue growth in West Virginia and in the District of Columbia, however, remained weak. Tax receipt growth varied by jurisdiction and type. Personal income withholding tax collections increased substantially in most District states. Sales tax collections, compared to a year ago, were stronger in Maryland, North Carolina, and Virginia, steady in South Carolina and West Virginia, and weaker in the District of Columbia. Corporate tax receipts, however, were reported to be lower in several jurisdictions. Agriculture District agricultural analysts reported that the harvest of summer crops was progressing more slowly than normal in some states. Harvesting of corn continued to be hampered by the slow maturing of the crop because of unseasonably cool weather. Soybeans also were maturing late, delaying their harvest and increasing the risk of frost damage. Tobacco harvesting was almost complete, and yields were about normal. Small grain planting was underway, but progress was slowed by the delays in harvesting summer crops. Livestock was reported in good condition. A large hay crop and good pasture conditions were expected to provide adequate forage for the winter months.