Summary The composition of Seventh District economic expansion shifted in September and early October, as disruption in the auto industry combined with a sense of uncertainty to contribute to mixed reports from the District's manufacturing sector. In contrast to earlier in the year, when manufacturing activity led the District recovery, consumer spending now seems to be supporting income gains in the region. Growth in retail sales and housing activity continued in September and early October. Reports on commercial and industrial loan demand were mixed A record corn and soybean harvest is well underway. Many contacts shared the perception that the nearing election has played a role in dampening economic activity, but they differed on the reasons why. Retailing Retailers indicated that sales growth continued in much of the District in September and early October. However, sales of durable goods were mixed, as growth in sales of housing-related products was offset by some reports of sluggish demand for cars. A large retailer expected its fourth consecutive monthly increase in same-store sales in October on a seasonally adjusted basis, led by durable goods linked to housing activity. This firm also reported that growth resumed in its outstanding customer credit in recent months, as new credit sales offset the continuing liquidation of existing credit balances. A large discount store chain reported little change in a trend of modest improvement in most District markets in recent months. A store chain selling mid-priced apparel experienced significant sales gains in September and October, and a regional analyst's survey of commissioned salespeople in department stores also indicated higher growth in sales and customer traffic. A large appliance manufacturer reported better-than-expected growth in retail sales of its own products, but gains remained restricted to inexpensive models within various categories. Autos Slower-than-expected growth in car sales combined with labor disputes to lead to a decline in District auto production in September and early October. One large automaker expected domestic sales of light vehicles in the fourth quarter to be flat to down slightly from the third quarter (on a seasonally adjusted basis). Another automaker reported that retail sales of its cars generally remained sluggish relative to pre-recession levels, but noted that sales in most markets in the Midwest continued to hold up better than the national average. One of the largest auto dealers in the District reported that sales weakness has persisted after a slowdown was first reported late in the summer, and this dealer recently lowered reorders for 1993 models from the levels that were planned earlier this year. An auto dealer exchange reported that used car prices continued to rise in recent months, even as the volume of trading among dealers declined, and this contact expressed frustration with an unexpected shortage of used cars in its market. After labor disputes contributed to an underbuild in third quarter production, one industry analyst expects modest production gains for light vehicles in the fourth quarter on a seasonally adjusted basis. Manufacturing While reports were mixed by area and industry, overall District manufacturing activity lost some of its upward momentum in September and October. Purchasing managers' surveys in Chicago, Detroit, and Southwest Michigan generally indicated that expansion continued through September, albeit at a slowing pace in several areas. The Milwaukee survey for September showed especially strong results, but other data and reports from individual firms largely indicated softer conditions in more recent weeks. A large manufacturer of heavy machinery reported modest growth in orders and shipments over a weak year-earlier period, but expressed growing concern with conditions in several of its markets. A producer of heating, ventilating, and air conditioning equipment reported that demand softened in recent months. A manufacturer of construction and industrial equipment reported that shipments growth slowed since the summer. The firm is still expecting a sales gain for the fourth quarter, but distributors' sensitivity to price indicated that underlying demand remained sluggish. A machine tool manufacturer reported that bookings growth slowed during the third quarter, but expected higher growth during 1993. A large manufacturer of electronics reported that growth in industry orders has lagged previous economic recoveries, but stated that the industry is "still seeing good growth," and noted that its own orders have significantly bettered the gains shown in national statistics. A large truck producer stated that orders for its heavy-duty trucks recently flattened out, and some other industry contacts expressed concern about the vulnerability of heavy-duty truck orders to cancellations. An association of machining companies reported slowing production in September and October, citing production cutbacks by a large automaker. A large steel producer reported that its order book for fourth quarter production is full, but the order book for first quarter 1993 production has been slow to build due to weakness in orders from the auto industry. Real Estate/Construction Reports from realtors, banks, and other contacts were largely consistent with statistical evidence of improvement in the District's housing market, although several regions and market sectors remained soft. One of the largest realtors in the District reported a record month for sales in September, partly (but not entirely) due to market share gains. This contact also noted a modest upturn in its commercial mortgage business. A realtor based in a healthy market reported some slowing in transaction volume on a seasonally adjusted basis, but only after strong gains during the summer. This realtor expected growth to resume in 1993. A large association of homebuilders reported that an uptrend in sales and building activity was little changed over the last three months (after accounting for seasonal factors). Traffic slowed in recent weeks, however, and the association does not expect acceleration in growth in the fourth quarter; a contact noted that "there is a lot of optimism among members about sales prospects in 1993." One large homebuilder stated that traffic was falling off somewhat faster than normal for this time of year, but expected demand to improve after the election. A large manufacturer of construction materials stated that production increases led to a further rise in its capacity utilization in September and October, although price increases became more difficult to implement. A large bank reported that residential mortgage activity continued to exceed plan, due both to refinancings as well as new lending. Banking Reports on trends in commercial and industrial loan demand were mixed. A middle-market lender reported that loan demand recently fell below expectations, stating that "clients' planning horizons skipped the third and fourth quarter, many people seem to have decided to wait out the election." A regional bank holding company noted that loan demand from retailers in its market remained sluggish, despite a pickup in retail sales activity. A bank reported a pickup in demand for loans from small and medium-sized manufacturers and wholesalers, "mainly because borrowers are trading money between banks, not because there is any surge in capital spending." Reports from two middle-market lenders indicated that demand for loans from commercial borrowers in Michigan was little changed in recent months, while another lender reported increased growth in loans to borrowers in Wisconsin. The leader of an association of small banks reported that loan demand remained sluggish, and stated that low confidence levels were the most important reason for the continued insensitivity of loan demand to lower interest rates. A large bank revealed increased loan demand from companies expanding production and distribution capacity in Mexico. Agriculture The fall harvest is well underway. The soybean harvest has progressed at a near-normal pace and is now nearing completion in most areas, except for Michigan where rain has slowed harvesting. Progress with the corn harvest has been considerably slower than normal because of the high moisture content of this year's crop. The latest U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates suggest the corn and soybean harvest will be up a fifth from last year and modestly above the previous high set in 1985.