Summary The Fourth District economy shows signs of sluggishness with no clear direction. On the upside, there are reports of strong gains in retail sales, especially of autos. Employment rose in December, and commercial bank loans increased in all categories, especially the consumer sector. On the downside, manufacturing output, orders and backlogs fell in December and manufacturing employment was unchanged. House builders remain extremely cautious, although other housing market participants' outlooks have been buoyed by interest rate declines. The coal mining, and oil and gas exploration industries are depressed. District Labor Market Conditions Labor market trends in the District were mixed in December. Ohio employment (s.a.) rose in December after having fallen in October and November. However, unemployment (s.a.) also rose in December after falling in November. The unemployment rate in Ohio rose in December to 9.1 percent (.s.a.) from 8.7 percent in November. Unemployment rates (n.s.a.) in ten metropolitan areas in the District ranged in November from 6.5 percent in Columbus to 15.6 percent in Wheeling. An index of leading indicators of employment in Pittsburgh has shown little change since last February, suggesting that employment there will not grow further. Retail Sales Fourth District retail sales registered a further strong gain in December. Some auto dealers report sales were up as much as 28 percent over a strong year-earlier period, apparently aided in part by an easing in inventory constraints, and the strong sales gains have continued into early January. Representatives from area department stores report that December sales more than met expectations. Year-over- year gains were in the 7 percent to 11 percent range. Some merchants report extensive price reductions while others say price reductions were quite limited. Most analysts attribute the fourth quarter rebound in sales to a still-positive consumer attitude. However, an economist at one department store chain noted that he expects retailers to continue trimming inventories over the first quarter of the year. Manufacturing and Energy Manufacturing activity in the District shows signs of weakening, and the energy sector is depressed. Surveys of production managers in Cincinnati and Cleveland show production, new orders and backlogs fell in December. However, there are some indications that the falloff may be seasonal, and manufacturing employment was unchanged. In Cleveland, a substantial majority of respondents expect business to be better in the first half of 1985 than in the last half of 1984. Price pressures continue to be moderate. Vendor delivery performance continues to improve. Raw material inventories are declining slowly, and finished goods inventories are generally flat, except where order declines have resulted in some involuntary accumulation. Contacts continue to report very conservative policies on inventory accumulation. Many firms in this District report continued strong competition from imports is restraining price increases and keeping profit margins small. A containers producer reports a continued shift from glass containers to plastic and paper substitutes. A producer of personal safety equipment used in industry had strong earnings in 1984 and expects a strong 1985. Some chemicals factories in southern Ohio are operating at capacity. Major steel producers report some pickup in orders from the automobile industry and steel service centers, but transactions prices remain well below published prices because of excess domestic capacity and strong competition from imports. Steel inventories remain high. A steel mill in western Pennsylvania recently announced a 500-worker layoff. Capital goods producers have mixed views on the report that domestic firms plan a 6.8 percent real increase in expenditures on plant and equipment in 1985. One firm, which expects a recession to begin no later than the second half, expects the real change in business fixed investment to be negative, partly because of uncertainty about tax law changes. Another firm thinks the figure is on the mark while a third expects a 10 percent real increase. Coal mining remains a depressed industry. Many workers are on a three-day week, and improvement is not expected until late-1985 when excessive stockpiles will have been worked down. Falling oil prices have depressed oil and gas drilling activity in this District. Housing Except for home builders, housing market participants in this District report continued improvement in their housing-related businesses and cite declining mortgage rates as the primary cause. The consensus is that housing activity will rebound at a slow, sustained pace until mid-1985. Housing market participants expect that the rate on fixed rate mortgages will decline as much as another 50 basis points, but won't fall below 12 percent. Realtors, who remain the most optimistic among market participants, experienced further improvement in December in listings and contracts closed. There are some signs that the move-up market is reversing its flat performance of 1984. Realtors' optimism is reflected in one District firm's plan to open three times as many new franchises during 1985 as in 1984. Mortgage lending volume is expanding because of lower mortgage rates, and one lender reports that loan volume in December was 50 percent higher than a year earlier. Lenders anticipate that the resumed popularity of the fixed rate mortgage will persist until the second half of 1985, when they expect rates to rise. Lenders will sell most new fixed-rate mortgages in the secondary market if commitment rates are favorable. Builders remain extremely cautious. New orders remain sluggish, and buyer traffic, which a major builder reports was up 11 percent nationally in December, fell 35 percent in Ohio. Because of poor earnings in 1984, builders are positioning to minimize downside risk. Commercial Banking Loan outstandings in all major categories increased at Fourth District banks during the past month. Contacts report that consumer loan demand has been quite good, and it should remain relatively strong on the strength of new car sales. Business lending has picked-up somewhat, and contacts are generally optimistic about future demand for commercial loans. One banker, however, thinks that recent business loan demand has been rather weak and doesn't expect an improvement before March. Deposit growth has been moderate for both transaction and nontransaction accounts at District banks in the past month.