Summary The flat trend which has characterized economic activity in the Seventh District since last spring continues in early 1985. However, analysts with District firms do not anticipate a recession. Despite robust auto and truck sales and output, most sectors important here are about holding even, some at very depressed levels. There is little hope that the gap in the region's performance relative to the nation that developed in the 1980s will be ameliorated in the near future. Total employment has barely increased since last spring, and some lines, including farm, construction, and mining equipment, medical care, and financial institutions have cut staff and/or have scheduled extended layoffs. Continued gains in the value of the dollar have defeated strenuous cost-cutting efforts of District producers to regain a viable position relative to foreign competitors. Steel output ended 1984 at a low level, and District steel producers anxiously await effective agreements to restrict imports. Sales and orders for heavy trucks and trailers have softened from the good level of last spring, but remain fairly high. Office and commercial construction prospects in the Chicago area remain vigorous, probably because of favorable tax treatment. General merchandise sales in late 1984 disappointed some large chains, and price cuts to move excess stocks have adversely affected profits. Price competition in cement, steel, paperboard, oil products, and airline fares is also intense. Depressed conditions in District agriculture are increasingly burdensome. Farmland values declined 5.5 percent in the region in the fourth quarter, and are down 27 percent from 1981 highs, with further declines probable. Labor Markets Jobs are hard to find in the Midwest. Through November, total payroll employment in the five-state area had risen less than 4 percent (S.A.) from the recession low in December 1982, and less than 1 percent since last April, only half the U.S. rate. Reports of new layoffs, extended shutdowns, help-wanted ads, and reports of hiring intentions suggest no improvement since November. Manufacturing employment has been about unchanged since last spring, while growth of nonfactory jobs has been very small. Despite favorable press reports by university PR departments, many of last year's college grads, often with good records from top-rated schools, have failed to find suitable employment. Others hired in recent years are out looking again. Job freezes and efforts to cut surplus staff are almost universal, including state/local government, hospitals and medical supply producers, commodity dealers, and financial institutions-sectors that were hiring steadily in the 1970s. As a result of the collapse of the video game craze (with output centered in Chicago) employment in area firms has dropped from 7,000 to 1,400 since 1982. A recent report of 100 job openings at the main Chicago post office caused a mob scene of thousands of would-be applicants. Wage freezes and give-backs, often fiercely disputed, are occurring in a number of sectors, especially meat packing and food retailing. Capital Equipment Construction and farm equipment producers remain under severe stress, with an historic consolidation and retrenchment underway. Output of farm equipment in 1985 is expected to fall from very low levels, even if sales hold up, because inventories of a leading producer will be liquidated. Very weak mining activity means virtually no demand far equipment. Industrial markets for diesel engines (except trucks) remain soft. Competition from foreign producers, in domestic markets and abroad, remains a severe problem for a wide range of producers, in large part because of the high value of the dollar, but also because of poor sales worldwide. The leading construction equipment producer (with a commanding position worldwide a few years ago) has had three straight loss years and laments "our dramatic cost reduction efforts are being offset by the soaring dollar". Most investment is heavily oriented toward quality assurance and elimination of jobs. Often machines and components for these programs are imported. Motor vehicles Auto sales improved in December as shortages of popular models eased. Further inventory building is planned in the first quarter of 1985. Major producers expect small gains in sales in 1985 from last year's high level. Auto industry employment remains well below 1978 levels, but new workers are being hired "off the street" at some District plants for the first time since the late 1970s, as workers on extended layoff have been rehired or exhausted their eligibility for recall. Orders for heavy trucks and trailers have slipped somewhat since last spring, but remain high. Heavy truck sales in 1984 were 80 percent higher than the recession low in 1982, but well below the 1978-1979 pace. Deliveries in 1985 are expected to be near 1984 levels. Steel Fourth-quarter steel output at District mills was lowest in 1984, and output fell more than usual at year-end as customers sought to cut inventories. A small rise in steel consumption is expected in 1985. Steel for motor vehicles will remain at high levels, and bids on fabricated steel for office buildings continue vigorous. Orders from equipment manufacturers have increased only moderately. Questions regarding the timing and effectiveness of "voluntary" import restrictions overhang the 1985 outlook for domestic production. Nonresidential Construction Contracts for nonresidential building (floor area, F.W. Dodge) in the five states were up 33 percent in 1984 from a year earlier, but 36 percent below 1979. The U.S. total was up only 19 percent, but within 13 percent of 1979. A surprising number of large office buildings are under construction or planned for downtown Chicago, and office and retail development continues vigorous in high-growth suburbs. Commercial construction activity may be artificially stimulated by the possibility that rapid depreciation for tax purposes will be ended. Car and truck makers plan new plants, mainly in Michigan and Indiana, with states and municipalities competing in offering costly incentives to promote local sites. Rehabilitation work continues at a strong pace, also encouraged by tax breaks. Highway improvement work is expected to rise through 1985 and into 1986, largely depending on federal fund allotments. Housing Permits for District residential construction slipped in the second half of 1984. Declines in mortgage rates since mid-1984 improve prospects. In 1984, housing construction permits in the five states were up 11 percent, but were down almost 60 percent from 1977. Used home sales held up well in late 1984, aided by lower mortgage rates. Retail Sales General merchandise sales in December and early January were mixed, but mostly below expectations. Discounters performed best. Inventories are excessive despite reduced orders starting last summer. Aggressive markdowns have been common. The share of sales on credit has leveled, after rising in recent years. Delinquencies are up, but not "dangerous". Appliance sales were at record levels last year, led by a 55 percent surge in microwave ovens, half of which are imported.