The economic expansion continued in most districts. The pace of recovery, although slower than early in the year, was moderately strong at year end. Retail sales activity during the holiday season was satisfactory and, in some cases, better than expected. Home sales and construction activity appeared to have rebounded significantly in response to declining mortgage interest rates. Manufacturing, employment and output continues to grow in most districts and manufacturers are reportedly optimistic about future sales prospects. The major sources of weakness appear to be agriculture and the mining and minerals industries. Overall, however, most districts report favorable trends in unemployment and continued low inflation. Construction and Real Estate In sharp contrast to reports of just a month ago, most districts report increased strength in home construction and sales activity. The recent decline in mortgage interest rates is credited with fueling this turnaround. Only Chicago, Minneapolis and St. Louis report continued significant weakness in housing activity. Nonresidential construction activity also is reported to be at satisfactory levels in most districts. Some overbuilding and weakness in commercial rental markets is reported by New York, however. Manufacturing and Industry Manufacturing employment and output growth was reported by many districts in December. Major sources of strength include the automobile, aerospace and electronics industries. San Francisco and Atlanta also report improved conditions in the paper and wood products industries. Chicago reports cut-backs in year-end steel production, however, and manufacturing activity appears to be generally sluggish in Dallas. Agriculture Agriculture appears to be broadly weak. The continued strength of the dollar and heavy debt burdens have depressed product prices and affected adversely the financial conditions of many farms. San Francisco estimates that 15 percent of agricultural loans in California are currently nonperforming. Kansas City estimates that this percentage may be as high as 90 percent in some areas of that district. The new federal debt adjustment program appears to be having only limited success in offsetting these developments. Consumer Spending Retail sales activity over the holiday period was healthy in virtually all districts. Boston, for example, reports sales increases of 6 to10 percent. In the Philadelphia district, retail sales were up 5 to 10 percent over December, 1983. A few districts- such as Cleveland-ascribe the strength of Christmas retail sales growth partly to unusual, pre-holiday promotional events and price- cutting. In most districts, however, retailers appear to be optimistic about future sales volumes as well. Finance Loan demand generally reflected the upturn in economic conditions with reports of increased commercial and consumer lending. Mortgage rates have declined significantly and increased home sales have generated increased demand for mortgage debt. In New York, however, the rebound of housing has yet to be reflected in mortgage lending data. Normal seasonal borrowing patterns also needed to be considered in evaluating year-end financial activity. As Atlanta reported, year-end commercial borrowing often softens as the result of reduced inventory financing requirements.