The southeastern economy continued to strengthen toward the year's end. Employment growth was noted even in the more depressed areas of the region. Consumer spending, which had been disappointing in the mid-holiday-shopping period, revived toward Christmas, and post-Christmas sales activity also was brisk. Commercial construction remains active, and the pace of home building quickened, owing to further declines in mortgage interest rates. Bank lending to consumers increased in early January, suggesting that demand for automobiles remained strong. A mild winter relative to the rest of the country boosted tourist activity. On the other hand, real estate and business lending by banks was soft. Many crop farmers, adversely affected earlier by heavy rainfall and flooding, are now suffering from low prices for corn and soybeans. Employment and Industry Labor market conditions improved in November. Unemployment rates broke out of a four-month plateau and declined in four of the six District states. Rates in Alabama and Mississippi, still at double-digit levels, moved up slightly more in November. Job markets continued to brighten in Florida and Georgia and welcomed improvements also occurred in Louisiana and Tennessee. Strength in paper, petrochemical, defense and aerospace industries overshadow lingering weaknesses in import-sensitive sectors. High operating rates have encouraged some paper plants to expand. Demand for linerboard and bonded paper is particularly strong, and prices are firm. Activity in Louisiana's petrochemical industry continued to brighten as evidenced by higher levels of offshore drilling, growth plans for capital spending, and reductions in inventories. Defense-related spending and aerospace production continue to augment the region's economic activity. Defense-related work doubled at Oak Ridge Laboratories from 1983 to 1984, and spokesmen expect a 25 percent improvement in 1985. On the other hand, several important sectors have experienced little improvement of late. Employment declined further in the region's steel and textile sectors during December. Although falling long- term interest rates have aided home building, inflows of Canadian lumber are still a concern of the region's lumber and wood product producers. Consumer Spending Holiday shopping in the Southeast matched or surpassed sales growth nationally, according to a survey of District retailers. Consumer spending was particularly brisk for video- cassette recorders, microcomputers, television sets, and microwave ovens. In contrast, unseasonably warm weather through December depressed sales of winter clothing. Merchants also reported narrower profit margins due to intense competition from new stores. Post- Christmas efforts to trim inventories were apparently successful; however, deep discounts were required to move merchandise. Regional merchants expect sales growth to moderate in 1985. Automobile dealers were pleased with their sales performance in 1984, and they are decidedly optimistic about prospects for early 1985. Construction. Residential construction reversed a decline early in the fourth quarter as mortgage interest rates eased and a feared plunge in economic activity failed to materialize. Home builders expect further declines in mortgage rates to extend the recent strength in building through the first half of 1985. Nonresidential construction continued to grow in early January. Although property managers consider the region's office market to be overbuilt, recent increases in rental rates should provide some relief. Shopping center construction continued to increase in December even though merchants contend that competition is already intense. Financial Services Overall loan demand at large commercial banks followed its normal pattern and tapered off in November and December for both consumer and business loans. Contacts report that consumer loans have picked up in early January, with a large proportion going to finance purchases of automobiles. Business loan demand was soft, reflecting reduced borrowing to finance inventories. Real estate lending by commercial banks was below normal, and mortgage loan commitments from savings and loan associations were weak earlier in the fourth quarter. Tourism Unusually pleasant weather in the region gave winter tourism an added boost in the final months of 1984, and contacts report bright prospects for coming months. Attendance at tourist attractions generally exceeded expectations. Hotel/motel revenues increased vigorously in most southeastern states, and occupancy rates continued to show strength. Passenger volume also grew at the region's airports. Agriculture Conditions in the southeastern agricultural economy maintained typical diversity In 1984. Crop farmers, whose cash income flourished a year ago, fared less well in 1984 as commodity prices declined. Conversely, total revenue increased for livestock and poultry producers in 1984. The poultry industry showed considerable improvement as high prices accompanied increased production. Income to pork farmers also grew sharply while the dairy and beef cattle industries experienced declines.