Overview There appears to have been a lull in industrial activity in the District over the past month, although employment levels remain firm. The District economy seems fundamentally strong. Retail sales turned in a strong showing, better, by all indications, than national data suggest. Construction activity is also quite strong, but unusually good weather may be a factor in that sector. Yet, manufacturers seem to have experienced a dip in orders and shipments, and inventories also declined over the past month. Heavy discounting by retailers gave a significant boost to unit sales, and left their inventories relatively low as well. Manufacturing Activity in the manufacturing sector is clearly less robust than in recent months. The deterioration of the activity in the textile and apparel sector is continuing, although the pace may have slowed somewhat. Import competition continues to plague the industry and is of major concern to industry participants and observers. Other industries have not recently offset the weakness in the textile and apparel industries as they had in the last few months, however, and orders, shipments, and order backlogs dipped broadly around year end. Manufacturers also report weakness in prices. Whether because of the recent decline in business activity or for other reasons, attitudes and expectations among District manufacturers also seem to have deteriorated of late. There is spreading concern over inventory levels and over excess plant and equipment capacity, although there is virtually no sentiment for changing current expansion plans. The outlook is also somewhat weaker than in recent months. Although manufacturers, on balance, seem to expect little change in output at their own firms, there is a slight preponderance of sentiment favoring declining activity at the national and market levels over the next six months. Despite these losses in activity and changes in attitudes, however, employment seems to be making further gains, at least apart from the textile and apparel industries. Coal production bounced back shortly before year end, and currently seems to be holding near the very strong year earlier levels. Also, coal shipments and imports generally are still keeping the District ports and other transportation sectors quite busy. Consumer Activity Retail sales also finished the year on a strong note as consumers responded aggressively to sales promotions and discounting. Month to month gains of eight to ten percent were not uncommon in the District. This surge of selling drew inventories down below normal levels at many stores, but there does not seem to be any sense of urgency about rebuilding stocks. Many retailers apparently are relieved that inventories are down so far, and are inclined to wait further developments before making restocking decisions. While there is no clear indication of current pricing policies in the retail sector, there are some signs that dealers are attempting to rescind the discounts offered earlier. Construction The construction sector remains a high point in Fifth District activity. Commercial and industrial building, still strong in the larger metropolitan areas, is spreading to the smaller cities in the form of office and industrial parks. Industrial building seems to have picked up recently, and planned construction, particularly for plant expansions, appears even stronger, despite the flagging optimism noted in the manufacturing sector. Residential sales and construction are also said to have rebounded, although even at the recent trough, activity was substantial. In addition, early readings on building permits suggest continued strength in residential construction into spring. Agriculture Agricultural economic conditions in the Fifth District will likely remain weak into 1985. Although District farmers will probably continue to fare better than their counterparts in many other regions of the U.S., the projected tighter U.S. net farm income and cash flow levels seen for 1985 are expected to adversely affect financial conditions in agriculture in the Fifth District. An income downturn for farmers this year will reduce the growth of farm loans, and hamper the serviceability of existing debt. Agricultural bankers continue to be wary of farm foreclosures as they perceive the market for farmland to be extremely thin. As a result, bankers are generally favoring restructuring of farm debt whenever it appears to be a realistic solution to the cash flow problem facing farmers. Expectations The recent fading of the optimism previously seen around the District appears to be related to uncertainty concerning such things as the trade deficit, the budget deficit, and the tax reform proposals rather than to current District business conditions. Business decisions concerning plant expansions, employment, and so forth continue to point to stable improved levels of activity. The exception, of course, concerns inventories, particularly at the retail level.