Overview There is little indication that the pace of recovery in the Fifth District has slowed. Expansion continues in virtually every sector, with month to month and year to year gains being reported nearly across the board. Absence of such gains in particular activities is generally attributed to special factors. Food processors, for instance, are encountering the relatively small agricultural output of the past season. Such special factors have resulted in some seasonally depressed employment and unemployment numbers, but, generally, employment is recovering sharply in most parts of the District. Retail sales remain among the sectors leading the recovery. Most areas are reporting sharp gains in sales. Credit demands remain modest as both consumers and businesses seem to be funding purchases from current or past income. Expectations of continued improvement in activity are widespread, with only retailers sensing that little further progress is likely. Manufacturing Total manufacturing activity continues to show improvement by nearly every measure. Shipments, orders, and order backlogs were up over the past month. Inventories were nearly unchanged as a slight drop in finished goods offset a small rise in materials on hand. Total stocks are still considered at or somewhat above desired levels, as is current plant and equipment capacity. Employment, average weekly hours, and weekly earnings also continued to advance in recent weeks. Employment gains were recorded in most sectors, particularly textiles, furniture, and seasonal agriculture related industries. In the last mentioned category, gains were less than normal, however, and seasonally adjusted levels were accordingly down. Durable goods manufacturing, apart from the consumer areas such as furniture, continued to show mixed results. Manufacturers responding to our survey report little change in prices they are receiving, but some scattered increases in prices paid. Respondents remain broadly optimistic. Nearly every one expects further gains in activity, nationally, locally, and in his respective market, over the next two quarters. Consumer Spending By all accounts, retail sales are still very strong and rising. Big ticket items are at least holding their own. With sales building into the holiday season the way they have, prospects for the final quarter are excellent. Retailers' expectations of a good season have apparently been substantiated during the first few days. The first weekend of the selling season was generally characterized as the best in years. Thus, while retailers do not seem to foresee much in way of further gains, apart from seasonal factors, they do not expect any near term losses. Automobiles sales also seem to be holding the substantial gains of recent months. Housing and Construction Sales of residential real estate are generally reported to have picked up again in recent weeks as mortgage interest rates stabilized or even edged downward. Construction of new units continues at a good pace in most areas. No significant decline, other than seasonal, is expected before spring, and will be unlikely, even then, if current sales rates hold up. There has been little apparent change in the commercial and industrial sector where activity continues to improve, but only at rather modest rates. Expectations remain generally positive, but somewhat less robust than in many other sectors. Banking and Finance Loan demand still does not seem to be keeping pace with economic activity. Lenders have observed only modest increases in consumer lending, particularly non-auto related lending. Business loan demand also remains soft. This relatively weak loan demand and the recent strong growth of liabilities of financial institutions are still thought to be causing some deterioration of overall credit quality. Also, District financial institutions generally seem to expect the slow growth of loan demand to continue for some time.