Summary Economic conditions continue to improve in the Fourth District. Employment is rising and unemployment is falling, but the unemployment rate remains well above the national average. Retail sales gains continue and merchants are optimistic about Christmas sales. Manufacturing activity continues to increase. Steel and capital goods output is increasing slowly. Sales of existing houses continue to be hurt by the level of interest rates and customer confusion about rates, but sales of new houses have improved recently. Commercial banks have become less liquid as deposit growth slowed, and loan volume increased sharply. Labor Market Conditions Labor market conditions in the District improved further in October, although unemployment remains high and substantially above the national average. The number of unemployed workers fell, cutting the unemployment rate to 10.6 percent (nsa), which is 2.2 percentage points above the national (nsa) rate. Nevertheless, Ohio's unemployment rate has improved substantially from the 13.2 percent rate of a year earlier. Unemployment rates in eleven major SMSAs in the Fourth District in September ranged from 8.5 percent (nsa) in Columbus to 14.5 percent in Youngstown. Local indexes of leading indicators for Pittsburgh and Cleveland continue to rise, although less rapidly than earlier in the year, suggesting that further improvement in labor market conditions lies ahead. Despite the substantial pool of unemployed workers, some smaller firms report evidence of a tightening in markets for some skilled employees, an event which some expect to lead to a quickening in the pace of wage increases over the next year. Prices, Wages, and Earnings Real earnings of workers in manufacturing have risen sharply in the last year. Average weekly earnings for production workers in manufacturing increased 11.4 percent from a year earlier in Cleveland, 11.4 percent in Pittsburgh, and 9.6 percent in Cincinnati. The Consumer Price Index for urban wage earners rose only 1.1 percent from a year earlier in Cleveland, 1.5 percent in Pittsburgh, and 2.8 percent in Cincinnati. Retail Sales A survey of Fourth District retailers indicates sales gains continued into November, although the pace of domestic new and used car sales showed a normal, seasonal slowdown between October and November. Three major general merchandisers report November sales increases of roughly 9 percent to 13 percent from year earlier sales, which compares favorably with the national average of 9.4 percent over the same period. The retailers report a rather broad-based sales improvement, although most hardgoods and apparel items are selling unusually well. New and used car dealers in the District report a moderate sales slowdown from October, which is typical for the season. Of the domestic new-auto retailers reporting, all indicate inventories are within an intended 40 to 50 day range. Import car dealers, however, continue to lose sales because of quota-induced availability problems. Most retailers contacted are optimistic about holiday- season sales prospects. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity continues to expand in this District. A survey of purchasing managers in the Cleveland area indicates solid gains in production and new orders in October; no respondent reported declines. Raw materials inventories are being increased and a slight decline in finished goods inventories is attributed to strong shipments. Employment expanded as firms reported callbacks, new hiring, overtime, and shift expansions. Respondents are bullish for the remainder of 1983 and the first half of 1984. A survey of Cincinnati area purchasing managers reveals production and new orders rose more rapidly in October than in September. Backlogs and employment also rose. Prices paid rose more rapidly in October than in September. This Bank's survey of Fourth District manufacturers reveals new orders and backlogs increased again in October and are expected to increase in November. Shipments expanded in October but no further gains are expected in November. Inventories are expected to decline in November. Steel A major steel firm reports that demand for steel is rising but not rapidly enough to strengthen prices very much. Because of cash flow pressures, steel producers are reluctant to build inventory despite the prospect of rising sales in 1984. The industry is operating at about 60 percent of reported capacity, up from 25 percent to 30 percent for many producers last December. Actual operating rates are somewhat higher; one firm estimates actual industry capacity at 143 million tons, instead of the reported 151 million tons. Despite slack in the industry, there are some bottlenecks in finishing capacity, as some mills that produce flat rolled products are operating virtually at capacity. Capital goods Capital goods producers report increasing orders and output, but from a very low base. Machinery producers note that capital goods production is growing slower here than in the nation because the District has a very small share of the rapidly growing electronic, high-tech equipment industry. Traditional capital goods industries, including machine tools, heavy-duty trucks and industrial and electrical equipment, have been reviving in recent months but operating rates are generally well below those of the high-growth industries. Real Estate Realtors report hope sales in recent months have fallen about 30 percent from last spring. Most of the decline is attributed to the midyear increase in mortgage interest rates. Realtors attribute part of the decline to recent changes in FHA and VA rates, which have caused customer confusion about the direction and level of rates. The inventory of listings is rising because of the slowdown in sales. Nominal transactions prices have not yet fallen but are expected to decline next spring if demand doesn't recover by then. Realtors report a recent increase in use of alternative financing arrangements. Builders report that sales of new homes picked up in October and November following a third quarter slump, but sales are 13 percent below this time last year. Overall, 1983 will prove to be a profitable year for most builders, and builders expect the same level of activity in 1984 if mortgage interest rates do not increase. Commercial Banking In recent weeks, commercial banks in the Fourth District have become somewhat less liquid as deposit growth has slowed and loan demand has strengthened. Demand deposits declined slightly, while savings and small time deposits increased by small amounts. Loan volume increased sharply. The bulk of the increase in loans went to banks in foreign countries, commercial and industrial borrowers, and brokers and dealers. Banks apparently financed the increase in loans by reducing their holdings of other earning assets and by issuing large denomination CD's. In particular, declines were evident in bank holdings of cash, U.S. Treasury and agency securities, municipal securities and federal funds sales.