Overview Strength in retail sales continues to be a major factor contributing to economic growth in most parts of the country. Still, for a few isolated regions, the mining areas of northern Minnesota and Michigan, the State of Oregon, and the energy-dependent areas of the Dallas District, the economic recovery has not yet begun. But in many of the regions that bore the brunt of the 1982 recession, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, St. Louis and upstate New York, for example, the recovery is well established. The 1983 Christmas season looks to be the best for retailers since 1978. In manufacturing the reports are of across-the-board improvement, while real estate sales and construction activity appear to be suffering little more than seasonal slowdowns in some areas and are quite strong in others. On the financial side, business loan demand at banks has been sluggish, reflecting the strong cash position of many firms. Agriculture, however, remains a troubled sector. Retail Sales With striking uniformity the twelve Federal Reserve Districts report very strong growth in retail sales. Apparel, home furnishings, and home appliances are most frequently mentioned as the fastest moving items, and automobile sales continue to increase. In Boston and Dallas retail sales are so strong that many stores report especially tight inventories. Only Chicago and Kansas City report a somewhat mixed picture, with the former noting a few areas of weakness and the latter mentioning a general slowdown in sales growth over the past three months. Despite the continued marked improvement in sales, retailers continue to be cautious. Chicago and San Francisco indicate that retailers have been slow to expand inventories, and only Philadelphia reports much optimism about rapid growth continuing into next spring. Manufacturing and Employment Manufacturing activity continues to expand: orders are up, backlogs are increasing, and many firms are implementing capital acquisition plans. Capital spending, however, still appears to be mostly aimed at productivity improvements rather than capacity expansion. Several districts report particularly high levels of activity in the pulp and paper and aluminum products industries. Defense orders have started increasing again in St. Louis, and Cleveland indicates that plants manufacturing flat rolled steel products are now operating at close to capacity. The capital goods industry is beginning to pick up in New York and Dallas, but continues to lag the recovery. One of Chicago's informants indicated the level of activity in the machine tool industry remains at only about 50 percent of a "good" year. San Francisco and Cleveland report that manufacturers, like retailers, remain quite cautious about accumulating inventory. The expansion in industry continues to lead to lower unemployment rates nationwide. However, the labor markets in Chicago and parts of New York are still weak, with both employment and unemployment lower than at this time last year. Real Estate and Construction Conditions in the real estate market differ somewhat across districts, but sales and construction activity appear to be strong in more places than they are weak. In New York, St. Louis, Dallas and Atlanta levels of activity remain high, especially in the commercial sector, although analysts in Dallas expect a slowdown before long. Finance Commercial and industrial loan demand has been sluggish in recent months, and most districts attribute this to strong cash positions in the business sector. Only Cleveland reports a general increase in loan demand, while San Francisco notes an increase in such lending but only by smaller banks. Bankers in the Philadelphia District expect business lending to pick up in the spring as corporations use up their cash and begin to finance plant expansion and inventory accumulation. Consumer lending is strong in most districts, but the picture is mixed with respect to mortgage lending. Richmond reports that the recent stabilization of mortgage interest rates has led to some increase in demand. Cleveland, however, is still experiencing a slowdown in lending attributable to the earlier rise in mortgage rates. Agriculture The PIK program has added to the 1983 incomes of farmers, but not all farmers are out of trouble. Atlanta, Minneapolis and Dallas report that increases in feed prices have narrowed margins on livestock operations.