Overview Reports from the Tenth District indicate a continuation of favorable economic conditions. Retail sales have moderated somewhat, but remain strong, with little upward movement in prices. Prices of industrial inputs also are little changed. Inventories of retail goods and of industrial inputs are regarded as satisfactory. Housing starts have leveled off while home sales have slowed. Savings inflows at savings and loan associations have increased, but mortgage demand has declined. Tenth District banks report a slight rise in deposits and generally stable loan demand. Marketing of fall harvested crops is slow, with many farmers apparently holding their crops in anticipation of higher prices. Retail Trade Retailers surveyed report that year-to-date total sales are up 5 to 20 percent over 1982 levels. Growth in sales, however, has slowed slightly in the past three months. Virtually all of the retailers contacted are satisfied with present inventory levels and none intend to start clearance sales earlier than in the past. A large number of respondents indicated that they raised prices slightly on some items during the past three months, but most of these increases were seasonal in nature. Almost all are optimistic about the sales outlook for the upcoming Christmas season. Purchasing Agents Most purchasing agents contacted report input price increases of between 2 and 6 percent over last November, although some report no change or even moderate declines. Few report significant price changes over the past three months. None of the agents contacted expects significant price increases before yearend; however, a few anticipate price increases very early in 1984. With one exception, purchasing agents report no availability problems, but several report some lengthening in lead times. Most firms are satisfied with current inventory levels and do not plan any changes in the next few months. Housing Activity and Finance Home builders report that housing starts continue to outpace 1982 levels. Starts appear to be leveling off, however. Recent inventory increases in the multifamily and $100,000+ single family categories, along with the onset of inclement weather, are in part responsible. Sales also are slowing. Reduced foot traffic by potential buyers and recent price increases are cited as contributing factors. The leveling off of starts and slowdown in sales have improved the outlook for materials. Builders foresee no shortages or price increases for materials through the first quarter of 1984. Most savings and loan associations report continued improvement in savings inflows. Some attribute this to more aggressive, competitive bidding for funds. Demand for mortgage funds and commitments has fallen from its peak in mid-summer, largely for seasonal reasons. Most savings and loans expect a slowdown until next spring, when anticipated lower mortgage rates and pent up demand should bring new homeowners into the market. Mortgage rates have been fairly steady and are expected to remain so for the rest of 1983. Agriculture The harvesting of row crops is virtually complete throughout the Tenth District. Winter wheat conditions across the District range from good to excellent. Planting from fencerow to fencerow is reported in some areas, indicating low participation by farmers in the 1984 Payment-In-Kind (PIK) program for wheat. Winter wheat pasture is in excellent condition, but some District bankers report a shortage of cattle to place on the pasture. Marketing of fall harvested row crops is reported to be slow, with many farmers holding their crops in storage in anticipation of higher prices. The selling of feeder cattle throughout the District is reported to be at normal levels. An average number of cattle have been sold while a larger proportion of calves than usual are expected to be held through the winter by ranchers. Some liquidation of gilts and sows is reported to be occurring in isolated areas of the Tenth District, but hog producers generally appear to be retaining breeding herds in anticipation of improved prices. Some paydowns by farmers are being made on their agricultural production loans, but the major part of the activity is expected to occur in December and in early 1984. Thus, it is too early to assess the impact of PIK payments on loan paydowns. Banking Tenth District banks report little growth in loan demand since the last Beigebook survey. Real estate, agricultural, commercial, and industrial lending are generally unchanged from last month. Only consumer lending increased Districtwide. Most bankers do not expect loan demand to rebound in the near future on grounds that the Tenth District, which entered the recession late, has entered the recovery late. The prime lending rate at Tenth District banks is 11 to 11 1/2 percent, unchanged from last month. Deposits at Tenth District banks grew slightly last month. Money market deposit accounts are responsible for nearly all of the growth. Demand deposits, NOW accounts, Super NOW's, passbook savings accounts, and large CD's remained constant. Responding banks report that the deregulation of time deposits on October 1 is having little impact on small-denomination time deposits, which grew only slightly last month. In regard to the imminent switch to contemporaneous reserve accounting, most Tenth District bankers anticipate little difficulty in complying with the new procedures.