Summary The tone of business and consumer sentiment in the Seventh District is much improved compared to the situation six to 12 months ago, but the firm confidence of several years ago has not returned. Gains in activity are widely expected to continue into 1984, with additional lagging sectors participating. Estimates of demand for most consumer durables have been raised periodically in the past several months, in contrast to downward revisions in 1982. Retailers anticipate the best Christmas in five years, but are stocking and hiring cautiously. The strength of demand for workers in the District continues to fall far short of the national experience, despite substantial recovery in the auto industry. The pickup in demand for heavy capital goods remains spotty. Inventories, generally, continue under close control. Shipments of household appliances and paperboard were at record levels in the third quarter, but volume of most durable goods industries remains far below earlier peaks, and is not expected to regain those peaks in the year ahead. Heavy inroads of foreign competition have intensified. Residential builders are entering the slow winter season with dampened spirits relative to last spring. Farmers are beginning to increase purchases of supplies and equipment slightly, reflecting improved income and expectations of larger plantings in 1984. Confidence Surveys Formal and informal surveys of executive and consumer attitudes in the District show substantial improvement compared with dismal reports early this year. Professional pollsters at the University of Michigan emphasize that indexes of sentiment reflect the direction rather than level of activity. Substantial gains in such measures in this region indicate more a feeling of relief that the long decline in activity has come to an end, and has been reversed in some sectors, rather than the old time ebullience. Retail Trade Most general merchandise retailers (not all) have reported improved sales and are counting on substantial increases in Christmas volume. Gains are projected in the 6-12 percent range over last year's results, which were disappointing. Most of the rise will be real because prices average only 1-3 percent higher. Merchants speak of "pent-up demand." Actual total sales volume may never be known accurately because of the growth of discounters, off-price specialty stores, and catalog houses that are not adequately tabulated. Credit use is up. Among the strongest lines are furniture, appliances (especially microwaves), some types of home computers, video recorders, some clothing, and various luxuries such as expensive dolls and cordless telephones. Merchants have been stocking cautiously for Christmas, preferring the chance of some stockouts to general excess. Hirings of temporary or part-time clerks are said to be much less frequent than in past years of rising sales. Employment In September, payroll employment in Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, and Wisconsin was still below a year earlier. It appears that little improvement occurred in October. Michigan showed a gain in employment from September 1982, reflecting motor industry recalls of workers. Despite lack of employment gains, all states reported substantial declines in estimated unemployment. In the 5-state area, employment was 25,000 below year-ago in September, while unemployment was estimated to be down 370,000. (Nationally, the gain in employment in this period was much larger than the decline in unemployment.) In Illinois, seasonally adjusted employment in October was the same as in December 1982. In this period the state's reported unemployment rate dropped from 12.8 to 9.7 percent. The dichotomy between stable employment and declining unemployment is explained as "outmigration", and "withdrawals from the labor force." In any case, job markets are still weak. Help-wanted ads and hiring intentions are up significantly, and lay-offs have been reduced, but these gains are offset by additional establishment closings and employment cutbacks, often through attrition. Some employers are offering generous incentives for early retirement to reduce "redundancies." Others are using overtime to handle increased output to such an extent that worker unrest has increased. Autos and Appliances Both auto and appliance producers substantially underestimated demand for certain models in 1983, reversing the tendency to overestimate noted in earlier years. As a result, inventories are too low. Auto output will be 60 percent above last year in the fourth quarter, with strong pressure to build more large cars. Output has been restrained by a desire to avoid quality problems. First quarter auto output is scheduled to be up 50 percent above the year earlier total. Appliance shipments, in units, were up 34 percent in the third quarter to a new all-time high. Industry analysts had projected appliance shipments to rise 7 percent in 1983, but the actual gain is likely to exceed 15 percent. Capital Goods Demand for capital equipment produced in the District has increased somewhat, but in a highly uneven manner. Output of replacement parts has increased on a fairly broad front. Machine tool orders are far above last year, but only 40 percent of the rate of early 1980. A diversified producer of capital goods reports bookings at only 50 percent of a "good level." Demand for steel for capital goods and construction remains near the recession low. Orders for steel castings for equipment are at only 40 percent of capacity. Production of heavy trucks will rise in early 1984, but only to 50 percent of the 1979 level. Truck trailers, almost unique among capital goods, are being produced at capacity because of increased size limits. Railroad equipment orders are few and small. Demand for construction equipment has picked up slightly. Farm equipment sales are expected to improve soon, but large inventories can accommodate most needs. Some District electric utilities have further slowed work on nuclear generating plants, partly because of soaring costs which may exceed original estimates ten-fold. A large number of District capital goods plants are closed or scheduled for closing, including plants producing rail cars, trucks, materials handling equipment, construction equipment, and farm equipment. In some cases companies headquartered here have alternative sources, either in other regions, especially the South, or abroad. Foreign Competition The current plight of producers of capital goods partly reflects slow demand world-wide. However, they complain bitterly of the ever- growing threat of foreign competition, which they attribute to the high value of the dollar, subsidies by foreign governments (including financing), and trade barriers abroad that hamper exports. Increasingly, capital goods producers are following the lead of the auto companies by arranging foreign sources for components including fasteners, castings, and engines, and complete products such as machine tools and construction equipment. In some cases this has resulted in the closing and dismantling of domestic plants.