Third District contacts report that the regional economy has posted mixed gains in November. Local manufacturing continues to expand despite some downward seasonal pressure, and retailers report yet another strong month in November. The financial picture has been mixed; commercial loan demand remains disappointingly weak, while retail lending continues to make significant advances. in housing, contacts report that continued high mortgage rates are resulting in a dip in November sales. The outlook for the Third District economy is for continued expansion into the Spring. Manufacturers expect to make significant capital investments and retailers anticipate very strong sales over the next six months. Bankers are forecasting a long awaited pickup in C&I loan activity. Real Estate and Construction Third District housing activity, except for that in downtown Philadelphia, has decreased slightly in November from October levels. Although business remains ahead off the depressed levels of a year ago, most contacts report spotty or declining sales over the last six weeks. The most often cited explanation for recent poor sales performance is that higher mortgage interest rates, and uncertainty over future rates, are keeping all but the most pressured buyers out of the market. New starts are also very slow this month, owing to both declining sales and seasonal conditions. Manufacturing Although seasonal factors had a damping effect on area industry this month, responses to the most recent Business Outlook Survey still indicate that local factories continued to post gains. About 40 percent of the executives surveyed report improved conditions in November while only 6 percent indicate a decline. New orders and shipments have shown widespread growth, and unfilled orders and delivery times have advanced slightly as well. Inventories, led by a significant buildup in durables, appear to have leveled off from a two-year decline. Employment also has also improved in November, and both payrolls and the length of the average workweek have been increased. Despite the continued strength of the expansion, respondents have tempered their outlooks somewhat this month. While 62 percent of the executives polled predict that the recovery will continue into next Spring, November's survey records the smallest group of optimists so far this year. Nevertheless, solid increases are still anticipated in both new orders and shipments, and manufacturers expect to hire more workers and to expand working hours between now and April. Additionally, the percentage of respondents planning to increase plant and equipment expenditures over the next six months is the highest it has been in two years. In short, the outlook is for continued growth. Industrial prices have climbed again this month. Input price increases have been significant in November, but slightly less so than in October, reflecting the mild seasonal easing of producer activity. Prices received for finished goods, on the other hand, have posted more widespread gains this month than last. Looking ahead, 70 percent of the manufacturers surveyed predict higher materials costs in the next six months, while 60 percent expect to receive higher prices for finished goods over the same period. Retail Retail sales in the Third District have shown steady improvement over the last six weeks. As contacts had anticipated, year-over-year gains are running about 10 percent in November, and they are expected to maintain that pace throughout the holiday shopping season. "Black Friday" was an exceptionally good day, despite an early snow, with some stores showing increases of 20 percent from a year ago. Higher consumer confidence levels and higher real incomes prompted an early opening of the Christmas shopping season this year, according to contacts, which could well turn out to be the best season since 1978. Retailers report their heaviest sales to be in personal computers and related equipment, entertainment electronics, and home furnishings. Due to a significantly reduced need for promotional activity, profit margins in area stores have risen from October levels. Merchants remain confident about sales over the next six months and currently are forecasting increases of 8 percent to 9 percent over strong Spring 1983 figures. Accordingly, retailers plan to allow their inventory levels to remain well above those of a year ago. Stores have built up stock over the last six weeks in preparation for the holiday surge, and contacts say inventories will remain 2 percent to 10 percent higher than a year earlier into the Spring. Financial Area banks continue to report mixed loan activity in November. Commercial loan volume has risen only slightly in the last six weeks, far below the anticipated level. Once again, many bankers feel that the improved internal cash flow of area companies is weakening loan demand. Reports on year-over-year loan volume vary from 12 percent below to 20 percent above November '82 levels. Although banks are struggling with C&I loans, they are enjoying consistently steady growth in retail lending. Led by the aggressive marketing of credit cards, consumer loan volume currently stands between 5 percent and 13 percent above levels of a year ago. Third District bankers are optimistic about loan demand for the next six months. They believe that companies will soon exhaust their internal funds and turn to borrowing to support investment in inventories, plant, and equipment. Consumer lending is also expected to be very active through Spring, and bankers plan to continue heavy promotion of retail, loans and credit card accounts. The prime lending rate remains at 11 percent at major banks in the Third District, reflecting what bankers feel is an "air of economic stability." Consequently, contacts foresee little change in interest rates between now and the second quarter of 1984. Some bankers expect short-term rates to ease slightly over the next two or three months, and then to rise again after the first quarter as overall borrowing continues to increase. Deposit flows in the Third District are reported to be rather sluggish in November. Demand deposits, although fairly volatile in recent weeks, show little net change from October. November's levels range from 2 percent below to 10 percent above those of a year ago. Time deposit growth is flat this month, according to area bankers, but levels remain about 30 percent ahead of November '82.