The southeastern economy continues to strengthen. Employment and orders are up in regionally important industries. Vigorous retail sales during the Thanksgiving weekend have made merchants optimistic regarding the Christmas season. Housing sales have increased since the FHA/VA rate dropped, and commercial real estate investment is lively. Business lending by major banks has improved markedly, and the growth in consumer lending remains healthy. Tourist trade is picking up in several major convention cities. The Payment-In-Kind (PIK) program has aided many farmers, but heavy debt burdens presage difficulties for marginal operations. Employment and Industry A poll of southeastern manufacturers indicates that employment and orders continue to improve even though the latest available labor market statistics for October show mixed signs. Employment losses in the petrochemical industry have ceased, and economizing measures have enabled firms to earn profits despite low utilization rates. Oil and gas drilling is increasing in Louisiana and Alabama. Corporate executives, anticipating rising energy prices over the next two to three years, are optimistic about prospects for 1984. Brisk sales of new cars have spurred demand for tires. In response, Alabama tire manufacturers, who produce 15 percent of the nation's supply, are expanding capacity by as much as 10 percent. Government contracts for military clothing are boosting production in the apparel industry. Pulp and paper mills are now operating at over 90 percent of capacity, almost 10 percentage points higher than last year. Demand for computer paper has been especially strong. Southern mills produce 52 percent of the nation's paper. Timber industry representatives report continuing upward momentum and expect production levels by year-end to approach peak 1979 levels. However, the effect of the upturn in housing has yet to reach some areas of Mississippi that depend heavily on lumber manufacturing. Consumer Spending Major southeastern retailers polled about Thanksgiving weekend sales report double-digit increases over last year's levels. Sales of apparel, toys, electronic goods, and home appliances have been especially strong despite limited price discounting. Most merchants, encouraged by the high levels of activity over the holiday weekend, are optimistic that consumer spending will reach a new peak by year-end. New motor vehicle sales continue to grow at a crisp pace. Truck and van sales are outperforming car sales, in part because dealers have had an abnormally low inventory of new cars. Construction The drop in the FHA/VA rate to 12.5 percent in early November stimulated housing sales by decreasing buyers' monthly mortgage payments, in the view of most realtors polled. Nonetheless, many potential buyers may be delaying purchases in anticipation of further decreases, and Atlanta lenders believe the increase in discount points that generally accompanies a decrease in FHA/VA rates may have motivated some sellers to leave the market rather than pay the additional fees. Orlando and Nashville realtors report increases in new-home sales, and Atlanta real estate agents indicate improvement in the used-home market. However, the cancellation of the Clinch River Breeder Reactor has dampened sales of single-family houses in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. Commercial real estate development in Tampa and Miami is proceeding swiftly. Tampa city officials are evaluating designs for a large multi-purpose convention center, and the city's first billion dollar project is under construction. Contacts indicate that Miami is undergoing an office-building "boom" fueled by developers' expectations of the legalization of interstate banking and attendant increases in demand for office space. Rapidly growing areas such as Atlanta and Jacksonville are also experiencing heavy investment in commercial real estate. Financial Services Deposits at large commercial banks advanced from September to October by 1.5 percent, slightly below the previous month's rate of increase. The slowing resulted from a decline in the growth rate of time deposits, which represent over half of southeastern bank deposits. Loans at large commercial banks increased 3.4 percent from September to October. Business and real estate lending grew markedly faster, while consumer lending sustained the strong pace of previous months. Some large southeastern banks have begun investing in one another's stock, building relationships which they could quickly expand if interstate banking wins legislative approval. Tourism Lodging tax revenues increased in October relative to year-earlier levels in all states except Tennessee, but hotel occupancy is still down in most cities except Orlando. Contacts in Atlanta and New Orleans report that the addition of new facilities has ameliorated convention trade. The first phase of the Georgia World Congress Center expansion, adding 65,000 square feet of exhibition space, opened in early October. Attendance at southeastern attractions continues to outpace year-earlier levels, and most of those surveyed plan to invest in expanded facilities in hopes of drawing visitors to the 1984 World's Fair in New Orleans. More than 15,000 people applied for 8,000 jobs at the Fair during the two weeks after applications were first accepted in November. The number of passengers at most of the District's major airports continues to increase over year-ago levels. Both large and small carriers are adding service to smaller cities. Agriculture Crop farmers' net income for the year has increased 10-15 percent above 1982, primarily because of PIK commodity payments. Profit margins of livestock operations have diminished steadily in 1983 as rising production coincided with sharp increases in feed costs, leading to a classic price-cost squeeze. In the broiler and egg industry 1983 was better than 1982, but the improvement would have been greater if the climb in feed costs had not offset much of the gain offered by rising prices. Nevertheless, the increase in net revenue signals a reprieve, not a turnaround in the farm economy. According to reports from the Farm Credit System and commercial banks, conditions are improving for the more conservative, financially sound farmers who constitute most of their borrowers and who are poised for recovery. In contrast, borrowers from the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA), who tend to operate marginal and/or highly leveraged farms, found only a temporary respite, if that, in 1983. In every District state except Tennessee, FmHA delinquency rates have edged higher compared to a year ago. The delinquency rate of Georgia's borrowers from FmHA is 56 percent, the highest rate in the nation. Only in Tennessee is the rate less than one-third. Many farmers in this group can do little better than hope to continue in business. Agribusinesses, particularly those which supply farm inputs such as fertilizer, have experienced trade declines of a third or more, although equipment repair work reportedly has increased.