Summary Several reports suggest slower growth, overall, in economic activity in the District, with declines in some sectors. Chicago purchasing managers indicating rising production continued in June to outnumber those noting declines, though by a smaller margin than in earlier months over the past two years. Orders are showing no growth, however, and backlogs are falling. Milwaukee purchasers say production and orders were about unchanged in June and backlogs were beginning to soften. Manufacturing employment in District states, seasonally adjusted, peaked in January. A number of manufacturers in the region note a slowing in activity or orders at their firms, slower growth for some, declines at others. Real estate markets, both nonresidential and residential, appear to be picking up in response to lower interest rates. Consumer spending continues sluggish. Favorable weather has enhanced crop prospects. Motor Vehicles Though auto production cuts through the third quarter have been limited, preliminary indications are that automakers will reduce output more substantially in the fourth quarter. Sales incentives have been enhanced further in an effort to sell excess inventories. Expectations for 1990 sales have been revised downward. A Big Three automaker announced a major cost-cutting program, involving substantial reductions in white-collar staffing. Sales of larger trucks are showing varying degrees of softness, with deliveries of medium-duty trucks below last year and orders for heavy trucks easing though deliveries are higher. An Indiana truck trailer manufacturer recently halted second-shift production and laid-off 350 workers. Machinery Markets for a variety of types of equipment continue to expand, but there appear to be an increasing number showing indications of weakness. Although shipments of metal-cutting machine tools this year have been sharply higher than in 1988, orders have trailed last year, particularly from abroad, and backlogs have fallen since February. Smaller pieces of earthmoving equipment used in residential construction continue weaker, as has been the case for many months. Softening has been noted recently in marine and recreational vehicle markets. A maker of industrial machinery has seen weakening in orders. On the other hand, a producer of electrical controls and power supplies used in a wide range of types of industrial equipment expects continued strength in these markets through year-end. Markets for mining equipment are strong, including robust demand from abroad. Road maintenance equipment buying is also strong. Demand for agricultural equipment continues to improve. Construction Lower mortgage interest rates reportedly are generating a pronounced upturn in inquiries and loan applications, both commercial and residential. Part of this increased activity reflects refinancing by current property owners, including shifts from adjustable-rate to fixed-rate loans. Part is expected to give rise to added construction. Thirty-year fixed-rate residential loans are being offered in the Chicago area generally in a 9.5-9.75 percent range, down from 10.75-11 percent common in March. Measures of construction activity continue stronger in this part of the country than nationwide. Year-to-date shipments of portland cement, for 5 months, were 5 percent higher in the East North Central states and 1 percent lower in the nation. Year-to-date gypsum board shipments were 8 percent higher than a year earlier in District states, against only a 4 percent rise nationwide. Nonresidential and residential construction contracts are above a year ago in District states and lower nationwide, suggesting relative strength in future construction activity in this region. Steel Demand for steel has slowed, but perhaps mainly seasonally. There appears to be an unusual concentration of shutdowns among the steel industry's customers in July. Unwinding of inventories accumulated earlier, to guard against the risk that negotiations over expiring labor agreements at steel mills might have been unsuccessful and led to strikes, is also thought to have contributed to slackened demand for steel. Planned auto production and related demand for sheet steel is strong again in August, following July shutdowns, but production cutbacks expected at automakers later this year would curtail this market for steel. Construction markets for steel were strong in the first half, and additional projects are coming up for bidding, but some other projects have been delayed for various reasons. Machinery markets for steel, as noted above, are turning increasingly mixed. Steel exports in 1989 have been up sharply, from a very low level, while imports have declined. General Merchandise A large retailer noted weakness in sales of durables, particularly furniture and draperies. Appliance sales are holding up a little better. Sales growth in nondurables, mainly apparel, has increased after weakness last year. A June survey of a large number of small Michigan retail stores indicated that year-to-year sales increases were only about keeping pace with the rise in prices. Agriculture Widespread rains and cooler-than-normal temperatures since mid-July led to enhanced harvest prospects and lower crop prices. Since the favorable weather occurred during the critical pollination period, corn yields this year are now expected to equal, or exceed, the average for non-drought years. Prospective soybean yields, while benefiting from rapid plant growth recently, still hinge heavily on weather patterns during the pod-filling stage in August. Preliminary results from our latest survey of District bankers suggest that farmland values continued to edge up in the second quarter, but at a slower pace than in earlier periods. The second quarter rise of 1 percent compares to gains of about 3 percent in each of the previous three quarters. The slowing was particularly evident in Illinois and Iowa where lingering drought concerns prevailed throughout the second quarter.