Overview After moderating for several months, growth in the District economy softened further in July. Activity was flat in some sectors and actually declined in others. Retail sales were weak on balance, and manufacturing activity decreased. Home sales were below their earlier level, and tourism and port activity were mixed. On the financial front, loan demand was generally weak. Despite the current sluggishness in their sectors, manufacturers, retailers, homebuilders and bankers are optimistic that their own business activity will increase in the next six months. Agriculture and forestry offer the brightest prospects for growth, as a good season will likely boost farm receipts, and strong foreign demand is supporting lumber sales and prices. Consumer Spending About half of the retailers responding to our regular mail survey reported lower sales in July while only a few reported increases. Most retailers, however, expect their sales to rise over the next six months. Retailer responses to our July survey were generally unchanged from May. Most car dealers again indicated slower sales, while department store volume increased slightly, as sales of big ticket items apparently improved. Manufacturing District manufacturing activity, which has been weakening in recent months, fell in July according to our regular mail survey. Reports of declines outnumbered reports of increases in shipments, new orders, and unfilled orders. Export orders, employment, and the length of the workweek were largely unchanged. Inventories of materials evidently declined, while inventories of finished goods were unchanged. Prices for both finished products and raw materials apparently continued to rise, but at a slightly slower rate than was reported in May. District manufacturers continue to be more optimistic about prospects for their own businesses than for general business activity in the nation. Respondents who expect increases in sales and unfilled orders in the next six months slightly outnumbered those who expect declines. The majority look for employment and the workweek at their respective plants to remain at current levels. Only one District producer in five, however, expects the general economy to improve over the next six months, while two in five expect it to decline. Expectations of Inflation and Foreign Trade In their responses to our July mail surveys, District manufacturers and retailers also indicated their expectations about U.S. prices, wages, exports, and imports. As in our previous survey, most respondents expect the rate of increase in prices and wages to stabilize or slow in the next six months. Slightly more July than May respondents look for the trade deficit to widen. The July survey results are summarized below. Expecting Rate of Increase to: Rise Slow Not Change Decline Prices 9 percent 31 percent 53 percent 7 percent Wages 10 percent 19 percent 71 percent 0 percent Exports 14 percent 22 percent 49 percent 14 percent Imports 18 percent 29 percent 46 percent 7 percent Ports Reports received from the three major District ports, Hampton Roads (Norfolk), Charleston, and Baltimore, show that import volume was unchanged in July from June. The export picture was mixed, with shipments higher at Charleston and Hampton Roads but about the same at Baltimore. Compared to a year ago, increases in export activity exceeded increases in import activity, and representatives expect this trend to continue during the next six months. At Hampton Roads, the largest coal port in the nation, coal exports have reportedly been at normal levels in recent weeks. Financial According to our telephone survey of financial institutions, commercial and industrial loan demand was generally flat to lower in July. Mortgage demand was mixed with half of those surveyed reporting higher demand and the other half lower demand. Of those reporting higher mortgage demand, most attributed the strength to refinancing activity. Auto loan demand was sluggish at banking institutions, and respondents felt that more dealer financing was the cause. Many bankers expect loan demand to firm once borrowers perceive that interest rates have bottomed out. Housing Housing activity in the District was reported as mixed overall, but still well behind last year's levels according to our telephone survey of builders and realtors. The suburban Washington, D.C., market has been especially slow recently, primarily because of large inventories of higher-priced homes. Most respondents noted that lower mortgage rates had begun to have a small positive effect. Several respondents said reduced mortgage rates had not resulted in heavier customer traffic but had allowed buyers to purchase more expensive homes. Tourism District hotel and motel representatives contacted by telephone indicated that tourist activity was mixed compared to last summer. About half reported that bookings were higher than last year at this time, which they attributed to more repeat customers, better convention business, and better weather. About one-third reported lower bookings. Our contacts gave mixed views on prospects for tourism for the rest of the summer; 40 percent expect increases, and 33 percent expect decreases from last year. Agriculture Abundant rainfall and moderate temperatures throughout much of the District during July have raised optimism that fall yields will be strong. The apple crop is in generally good condition. The harvest of early peaches has begun, with that crop also rated as good. The District's lumber industry has apparently benefited from strong foreign demand that has largely offset the weakness in domestic demand due to softness in construction. Foreign buyers of lumber were said to have bought all grades and to have paid top prices.