Overview The Tenth District economy continues to grow moderately. Overall retail sales continue to increase, although new car sales are weak. Increases in manufacturers' input prices are moderating and most materials are readily available. Retailers and manufacturers are both trimming inventories. Drilling activity, while variable from month to month, is below its year-ago level. Housing activity remains weak, with the effect of slightly lower mortgage rates not yet evident. Loan demand at commercial banks is flat to somewhat stronger for most loan categories. Lower yields likely held winter wheat production below average despite acreage increases. Retail Sales Most Tenth District retailers report sales increases over last year and over the last three months. However, merchandise sales are expected to be flat over the rest of this year and most respondents are reducing their inventories. Prices have been steady and are expected to remain so in the near future. Tenth District automobile dealers report weak new car sales over the last month. Dealers expect 1989 sales at or below 1988 sales and are trying to trim inventories. Manufacturing Most respondents report that input prices rose moderately over the last year. However, input prices changed little over the last three months, and only small increases are expected over the next three months. Although some lead times have lengthened, most materials are readily available. Nearly all respondents are trimming their inventories and plan to trim further in coming months. The inventory reductions reflect a recent build-up of excess inventories at some firms as well as long-term efforts to reduce normal inventory levels. Most Tenth District manufacturing plants are operating near full capacity. However, one steel manufacturer reports that the recent strength of the dollar has hurt sales of U.S. produced pipe and rails. Several firms report problems in finding skilled labor. Energy Volatility in oil prices appears to be contributing to month-to- month variability in district drilling activity. Drilling activity also remains below year-ago levels. After falling in June to 225, the average number of active drilling rigs in the district increased sharply to 246 in July. Exploration and development activity, therefore, stands about 8 percent below the level of one year ago. Housing Activity and Finance District housing activity is down from a year ago, and most homebuilders report a slight decline in starts from a month earlier. New single-family home sales and prices have been steady and multifamily construction is virtually at a standstill. Most respondents expect little change in housing activity for the rest of the year. Deposit inflows at district savings and loan institutions are slightly higher than a month ago but lower than a year ago. However, deposit inflows vary substantially from one institution to another. Some respondents attribute the recent behavior of deposit flows to uncertainty about the new savings and loan legislation. Although mortgage demand has been mixed, modest growth is expected in the near future. Nearly all respondents report slightly lower mortgage rates, but most expect stable rates in coming months. Banking District commercial bank respondents report more increases in loan demand than decreases. Increased demand is reported to be most apparent for commercial and industrial loans, home equity loans, and agricultural loans. Decreased demand is evident for home construction and commercial real estate loans. Demand for other types of loans is said to be generally unchanged. Among responding banks, loan-to-deposit ratios are about the same as a month ago but somewhat higher than a year ago. At most banks, lending rates both to businesses and consumers have either fallen in the last month or are expected to decline in the near future. Deposit levels are generally the same or somewhat higher than a month ago. Demand deposits and small time and savings deposits have shown the greatest strength. Agriculture Winter wheat yields and quality vary widely across the district as the harvest nears completion. Some fields in Kansas and Nebraska were not harvested due to crop damage from cold weather, drought, insects, or hail. Wheat quality in Kansas was reduced by harvest delays due to late season rainfall. In other parts of the district, however, wheat yields and quality were average or above average. Overall, yields likely held winter wheat production below average despite acreage increases. The district corn, soybean, and milo crops are generally in good condition. Across most of the district, recent rainfall has improved crop growing conditions, and good yields are likely if further timely rainfall is received. But in some areas, where planting was delayed last spring, crops could be threatened by an early frost. Little expansion in district cattle and hog numbers is expected this year. District fed cattle prices remain strong, but cattle feeding margins are being squeezed by the high price of feeder cattle. High feeder cattle prices, in turn, are contributing to large profit margins for cattle ranchers. Although such profits would typically result in an expansion of cattle herds, drought-diminished feed supplies are likely to restrict herd expansion this year. Slaughter hog prices are higher, but little expansion in hog-feeding activity is likely because feeding margins remain near break-even levels.