A gradual reduction in the growth rates of employment and consumer spending has continued in recent months and led to layoffs in several durables manufacturing industries. Nonresidential construction contracts rebounded in the second quarter, but residential contracts were flat. Although recent rains have helped to ease drought conditions in northern Missouri, excessive rainfall has caused production losses in other parts of the District. Employment Average District payroll employment in the three months through May was virtually unchanged from the previous three-month average, following moderate growth earlier in the year. Employment growth slowed in services and wholesale/retail trades in recent months while employment declined in construction and manufacturing. Compared with a year earlier, May payroll employment was up 1.4 percent in the District while rising 3.1 percent in the nation. There has been little evidence of excessive wage pressures. In Arkansas, for instance, nominal hourly wages for manufacturing workers were only 0.7 percent higher in May than a year earlier. Manufacturing District manufacturing employment in the March-May period fell at a 0.6 percent rate compared with the previous three months, with employment declines in most industrial sectors. Sluggish sales of light trucks prompted a one-week closure of a Louisville assembly plant, the first such shutdown in six years. Weak sales of refrigerators and computer peripherals led two Arkansas producers to announce major layoffs. Rising worldwide inventories of coated paper, used in magazines, caused a major layoff of Arkansas paper mill workers. In a June survey of Missouri purchasing managers, 48 percent of respondents reported increases in new orders in the second quarter, a response slightly below that of a year earlier. Delivery lead times increased in the second quarter for 28 percent of respondents compared with 38 percent in the first quarter and 68 percent a year earlier. Construction Although construction employment continued to fall, the value of construction contracts rebounded in the second quarter, suggesting future strengthening. The value of District nonresidential construction contracts rose 25.2 percent in the second quarter, after falling at a similar rate in the first quarter. District residential contracts rose marginally in the second quarter (0.8 percent), returning to the level of a year earlier. Contacts suggest that recent mortgage rate declines have not caused substantial increases in homebuilding as consumers expect further rate declines. Consumer Spending Retail sales growth has weakened in recent months. Non-auto sales since May were 2-5 percent higher than a year earlier compared with 4-7 percent gains earlier in the year. Women's apparel and accessories are reported to be selling moderately well, but sales of men and boy's goods, and in most cases, of home furnishings and appliances, are weakening. While inventories are near desired levels at most outlets, some retailers in Arkansas report unplanned increases. Car sales generally have been slow, with inventories remaining at high levels. Tennessee contacts report new car sales are slow, while used car sales are moderate to strong. Agriculture and Mining Most District crops are in fair to good condition. Rains helped ease drought conditions in northern Missouri, although subsoil moisture and livestock water supplies remain deficient. Cotton, soybean, and tobacco growth is being hampered by excessive rains in the District's southern states. By limiting access to cutting sites, the rains have also reduced the supply of logs to some District paper mills. Compared with the same period last year, coal production fell 8.5 percent in the District and 3.4 percent in the nation in the six-week period through July 15. Sympathy strikes, industry-wide vacations and stockpile drawdowns affected the coal production figures during this period. Banking Total loans at the District's weekly-reporting banks grew at an 11 percent annual rate for the second quarter, somewhat higher than the 7.7 percent rate reported for the same period in 1988. Most of the overall growth can be traced to real estate loans (primarily nonresidential), which increased at a 24.7 percent annual rate, more than twice that for the same period in 1988. Consumer loans continue to be weak, growing at a 1.6 percent rate. Total deposits at these same institutions declined considerably during the second quarter, falling at a 2.5 percent annual rate compared with a 3.0 percent rate of increase for the same period last year. Weakness in business demand deposits and unusually large tax payments by households are cited as possible explanations for this overall decline.