Overview The Tenth District economy continues to show softness, apart from local areas benefiting from strength in the energy sector. Recent strength in sales has left District retailers satisfied with inventory levels. Auto sales continue to be sluggish, however. Residential construction remains depressed, but commercial construction activity is strong where the energy industry is important. Farmland prices appear to be softening somewhat. Loan demand ranges from weak in agricultural areas to strong in areas serving the energy industry. Retail Trade Retailers in the Tenth District reported that nominal sales gains were in the 8-15 percent range in 1981 compared to 1980. While sales in October and November of last year were relatively weak, December sales in the District were equal to or greater than the year-over-year increase. Sales of apparel and electronic games were particularly strong during December 1981. The recent strength in sales left most District retailers satisfied with inventory levels at the end of 1981. Strong sales also firmed up profit margins for most retailers, who report merchandise cost increases in the 5-6 percent range. Those cost increases are still being passed on to the consumer as most retailers continue to maintain their inventory markups. However, all retailers indicate that consumers are still very price conscious and, if necessary, retailers will cut prices to maintain sales levels. Most District retailers expect sales to be about 10 percent greater in the first half of 1982 than in the first half of 1981. Automobile Sales District Automobile Dealers' Associations report generally sluggish sales, with the exception of Oklahoma which boasts a 6 percent increase over last year. High interest rates are dampening demand and increasing the cost of floor planning to nearly prohibitive levels, prompting dealers to trim inventories as much as possible. In addition to high interest rates, banks are resorting to higher down payments and longer residency requirements to ration credit to auto buyers. The depressed credit conditions are discouraging primarily small-and medium-sized car sales. Dealers hold a bleak short-term outlook, but most predict an upswing during the summer contingent upon lower interest rates. Industry Activity Most purchasing agents contacted report that input prices have increased 8 to 12 percent in the last year, with similar increases expected during 1982. Materials are readily available, although some lead times have been extended due to adjustments in production and in the work force. Inventory levels are satisfactory for most of the firms contacted, and will remain at or below current levels until the economy exhibits signs of recovery. Residential construction activity remains weak in most parts of the Tenth District. Commercial construction activity is strong in areas where the energy industry is important. Although energy activity continues to grow, there are some indications of a slight slowing, particularly in gas well drilling in Oklahoma and in Colorado's oil shale industry. Agriculture Tenth District farmers may be holding slightly larger amounts of grain off the market than in a normal year, due mainly to the unfavorable price situation. As a result, more stored grain is entering the farmer-owned reserve program. Agricultural banks in the Tenth District are carrying over into 1982 more 1981 farm loans than is seasonally true. Bankers are continuing to maintain lines of credit for long-standing farm and ranch customers, although many bankers are not comfortable with this situation given the less-than-optimistic outlook for agriculture in 1982. In some instances, farmers are being asked to liquidate a portion of their assets to keep their farm businesses solvent. Fund availability remains adequate but the creditworthiness of farm borrowers continues to deteriorate. In some areas of Oklahoma, nonbank agricultural lenders are increasing loan restrictions, which has forced the foreclosure of several farming operations. Declines in farmland prices have occurred in some parts of the District, but agricultural bankers generally report that land prices are holding steady. Banking Developments Reported loan demand at Tenth District banks ranges from weak in rural areas to strong in those areas serving the energy industry. Commercial and industrial lending continues to be the only source of strength Districtwide. A number of bankers report still further weakness in the balance sheet situation in agriculture. Prime rates range from 15 3/4 to 16 1/4 percent, unchanged from last month's survey. Several bankers express concern over a reduction in loan quality and indicate tighter lending restrictions. While deposit growth was generally stronger than last month, much of the growth was seasonal in nature. Banks in areas with sizable loan demand continue to rely on large CDs to fund these loans. Some of the growth in transactions accounts and passbook savings accounts is attributed to precautionary motives. Despite the very heavy promotion of IRA/Keough programs, most banks report smaller-than-expected activity in these accounts. Several bankers indicate that the bulk of the funds being transferred into these accounts is coming from passbook savings and from thrift institutions.