Overview Most available information suggests that business activity in the Fifth District has not yet bottomed out. Continued deterioration over the past month is evidenced by further declines in manufacturers' shipments, new orders, employment, and the return to sluggishness of retail sales activity. Layoffs continue to spread, involving transportation, machinery, and government in a widespread pattern of layoffs and falling employment. Construction activity seems to have slipped further and the prospects for a near-term recovery are fading according to Richmond directors. On the positive side, growth of inventories has abated, wage demands have softened, and manufacturers surveyed are decidedly less pessimistic than in recent months. Manufacturing Although the rate of decline may have moderated over the month, the trend in manufacturing activity is clearly down. More than half the manufacturers surveyed report further declines in new orders and order backlogs over the month. Employment and the length of the workweek fell broadly so that despite further cutbacks in shipments, inventory growth was brought under control, at least temporarily. Stocks of finished goods were essentially unchanged over the month while materials on hand fell slightly. Inventories fell relative to desired levels but remain substantially in excess. Current plant and equipment capacity also far exceeds present needs. Price increases continued moderately by recent standards. These signs of weakness remain pervasive. There are still no apparent exceptions in the manufacturing sector of the Fifth District other than, perhaps, some defense contractors. Several of the District's major industries, textiles, furniture, and building materials, remain very weak. Consumer Spending Most indications are that the Holiday Season brought a respectable, if unspectacular, surge of consumer activity. More recent information suggests, however, that the buoyancy was short lived. Retail sales, particularly of big ticket items, have fallen further according to our respondents. One respondent, a major department store, finds customers just waiting for sales, unwilling to buy at full price. There is some feeling that the scope of pre-Christmas promotional activities, particularly discounting, sapped the retail sector of some of its late winter potential. Partially because of this thinking, District retailers remain basically pessimistic. There is little expectation that conditions will improve over the next six months. In fact, several respondents expect conditions to be worse at mid-year. Retail respondents managed to hold inventories and prices at previous levels this month. Nonetheless, inventories remain above desired levels and the recent pricing policies are expected to adversely affect profits for the year. Housing and Construction Construction in general, and particularly residential, remains very weak. In many areas of the District, housing construction is almost non-existent. In addition, there is less optimism regarding the near-term outlook for housing. A number of our directors feel that a decline in mortgage rates, even to the 13 percent level, will not induce a major turnaround. They see the situation as now more complex requiring a combination of economic growth, rising employment and incomes, and greater confidence in addition to lower interest rates before significant improvement will occur. The Financial Sector Bankers are apparently continuing to experience positive responses to market interest rate instruments. Although it is still too early to know, they expect significant inflows of funds into IRAs. Our directors in banking generally expect anywhere from 40-80 percent of a large pool of IRA funds to wind up in banks and thrifts. They are very much encouraged by this prospect. The Outlook Changes in the outlook were mixed over the month, but in general there seems to have been a shift toward the positive. Of interest is the recent segmentation of this outlook picture. The generally held outlook for the manufacturing sector is positive, while for retailing and construction the recovery is thought to be somewhat more remote.