The Twelfth District economy appears to have weakened further in the past month. A late burst of spending pushed December retail sales moderately ahead of the year-ago level in nominal terms, but sales still failed to keep up with inflation. Moreover, in January, sales apparently have dropped below the year-ago level in nominal terms. In the manufacturing and mining sectors, further production cutbacks and layoffs are evident among a broad spectrum of industries. Residential construction rose in December, but builders are skeptical that the improvement will be sustained, given the recent rise in mortgage interest rates. Apparently the region s supply of unsold homes actually has increased recently, contrary to the pattern elsewhere. Farmers are experiencing a continuing decline in commodity prices and are finding it increasingly difficult to obtain credit. Commercial loan demand at banks increased in December but not because of increased confidence but to finance excess inventory. Regional banks are becoming increasingly worried about the creditworthiness of borrowers. At regional S&Ls, mortgage lending continues to be very slow, with no significant improvement in savings flows to the industry. Consumer Spending A spending flurry late in the Christmas season pushed December retail sales in various Twelfth District states about 1-5 percent above the year-earlier pace in nominal terms. This represented a decline in real terms, however. Moreover, since early January, sales have slowed, dropping below the year-ago level in nominal terms and widening the year-to-year real decline. Retailers believe that the pre-Christmas burst in sales was "borrowed" from later periods. Indeed, they expect sales to remain sluggish through the early months of 1982 due to an expected further increase in unemployment and the cautious spending behavior being exhibited by consumers. As evidence of consumer caution, retailers point out that they achieved the pre-Christmas flurry only by offering severe price markdowns and that consumers stayed away from durable goods and focused on apparel and other necessities. The retail sector is experiencing a squeeze in profit margins. Collections also are slowing. Unlike the 1974-75 recession, inventories are not excessive relative to sales, however, in that retailers have tried to hold down short-term borrowing. The exception is at automobile dealerships, where new car sales early in 1982 have dropped even further below year-ago levels. Mining and Manufacturing Respondents report further cutbacks in production and employment among a wide number of industries. In the forest products industry, weakness in the paper segment of the market is offsetting slight gains in lumber employment, resulting in continued net layoffs. In the metals industries, further price weakness is forcing additional closures and curtailments in January. Many of these cutbacks can be traced to weak demand from the national automobile, housing, appliance and aircraft manufacturing industries. Copper producers in Arizona and Utah are extending Christmas holiday shutdowns, indefinitely in some cases, until prices recover. Employment also is being cut back at silver-lead-zinc mining facilities in Idaho, at steelmaking facilities in California and in the Pacific Northwest aluminum industry. In the automobile industry, General Motors Corporation plans to close temporarily its Fremont, California plant on February 1 to reduce excess inventory. In the aerospace industry, lagging orders for commercial jet aircraft and electronic products are forcing further layoffs, with the Lockheed Corporation actually phasing out production of its L-l0ll transport. Real Estate Twelfth District respondents report no sign of the pick-up in new home sales reported elsewhere. On the contrary, they contend that the region's inventory of unsold homes is still increasing. Moreover, the value of residential real estate is depreciating 5-10 percent annually, both as a result of actual price reductions and seller-financed transactions at less than market interest rates. Failures and bankruptcies in the real estate and homebuilding industries are mounting. Although Western homebuilding activity picked up in December, builders tend to downplay the improvement, stressing that Western homebuilding remains further below the 1978 peak than is true nationally. Moreover, they are concerned that the recent increase in mortgage rates will arrest the homebuilding recovery. Nonresidential construction activity has shown little change recently and is running at approximately the year-ago pace. Agriculture Twelfth District farmers and ranchers experienced further deterioration in their financial situation in December as a result of a further decline in commodity prices. Price weakness continued to reflect bountiful supplies and weak export demand. In January, regional farmers have been benefiting from higher prices for citrus fruits as a result of the Florida freeze. Cattle prices also have been rising. Nevertheless, the farm sector is in serious financial difficulty. Many farmers need to extend debt acquired during past periods of drought but are finding it difficult to qualify for loans because of decreasing creditworthiness. A growing number of farms are for sale, especially in California. Financial Institutions Credit extended by Twelfth District banks rose substantially in December, with lending to businesses and consumers accounting for most of the increase. Bankers regarded this increased demand for loans as a sign of further economic weakness, however. Involuntary inventory accumulation and inadequate generation of working capital were the most frequently cited reasons for the increased business loan demand. Banks are becoming increasingly concerned about the creditworthiness of their borrowers, and have generally tightened their credit standards. Loans to the forest products, agriculture, automobile and farm equipment industries are being subjected to particular scrutiny. In December, real estate lending continued sluggish throughout the District, particularly for residential construction.