Summary The business recession continued in the Seventh District on a broad front through the fourth quarter and into January. Output, new orders, and employment declined further in most manufacturing industries. Severe weather in January caused hardship and hampered business operations in various areas. Sales of general merchandise firms improved significantly late in the Christmas season and in early January, in response to promotions and price discounts. (Bad weather depressed sales in some areas later in the month.) Price discounting also is widespread in wholesale markets for materials and components. Housing activity is almost nonexistent. Agricultural conditions remain very depressed, but there is hope that December marked the low point for farm prices. Farmland prices have softened. The upturn in interest rates since late November has depressed credit demands, but business borrowing at large banks was strong in December. The Outlook While forecasts vary significantly, most analysts in the region believe the decline in activity will end some time in the spring, followed by at least a modest uptrend in the second half. Several reasons are offered. The lead role probably will be played by consumers with buying power augmented by tax cuts starting July 1. Excess inventories are being eliminated by price discounting and production cutbacks. A slower underlying rate of price inflation, aided by union wage and benefit concessions, will improve business confidence. Defense procurement, although not a major factor in the district, will provide some stimulus. Backlogs of deferred demand for housing, consumer durables, and some producer equipment are building up. Accelerated depreciation under the new tax law will help capital outlays. Translating backlogs of demand into sales and orders probably will depend on a reversal of the recent upturn in interest rates, which most analysts anticipate. Inflation Published price indexes probably do not fully reflect recent price cutting, for both producer and consumer goods. But the recent slowdown in inflation may be temporary. Electric and gas utilities are seeking large increases, and many manufacturers and trade firms will raise prices at the first favorable opportunity. Inventories of materials and components are at such low levels that any upturn in demand would spark price increases. Consumer Purchases Sales of vehicles, furniture, and appliances remain very weak, but most general merchandise stores reported significant strength in sales just before and after Christmas. Although consumers responded to bargain prices, inventories remain somewhat excessive. Airlines report improvement in traffic starting in December. Some analysts fear that vigorous promotion of IRA accounts will draw away consumer dollars. Employment Employment has been declining faster in the district than in the nation. In November, wage and salary employment in district states was 3 percent below November 1978 and manufacturing was off 13 percent. Indiana, Iowa, and Michigan have suffered the largest job losses. Layoffs in the motor industry and construction have been most significant, but layoffs also have been mounting in capital goods industries. White collar jobs are affected increasingly. Some state and local governments are reducing employment, reversing a steady rapid rise in the 1960's and l970's, mainly because of cuts in federal programs. Plant Closing Many industrial plants have been closed in recent weeks to cut finished goods inventories, and many others are on short workweeks. Hopefully, most temporary closings will end as scheduled later this month or in February. Some plants have already reopened. However, certain freight car plants have been closed with no schedule for reopening. Several plants in the meat packing, motor and cement industries have been closed permanently. Packaging Materials Orders for steel and plastic strapping, and paperboard for boxes, were very weak in late 1981, and apparently in January as well. Demand for these products parallels manufacturing activity in a broad range of industries. Inventories of paperboard rose suddenly as demand dropped off. Labor Negotiations Management and unions in various hard-pressed industries are engaged in negotiations to scale down compensation, or at least to slow increases. Restrictive work rules are under review. So far, confirmed concessions have been most significant in the auto, meat packing, and airline industries. A bitter struggle lies ahead over industry "take away" demands. The most important discussions are in the bellwether motor industry where management is seeking drastic modifications of the existing contract. Capital Goods Contracts for new industrial buildings, and new orders for capital goods, suggest a sharper decline in capital spending in the district than the 0.5 percent decline indicated by the recent government survey. Faster depreciation and other new investment incentives will have an impact, but only after confidence improves and margins of excess capacity are narrowed. Capital spending programs are dominated by projects intended to cut energy costs, e.g. continuous casting installations in the steel industry. Motor Vehicles Sales of cars and trucks continue at severely depressed levels. The first quarter auto output schedule of only 1.4 million, may be cut again. Inventories are at an all time high in terms of days supply. Steel After showing strength last spring, steel demand slowed in the second half of 1981, and December marked the low for the year. A pickup in demand expected for January has not materialized, and no improvement is now seen before March. User inventories of steel are low and would have to be replenished if durable goods sales revived. Construction After a slight easing in availability of mortgage funds in November and early December, the market tightened again. Very few new loans are being negotiated at quoted terms of 17-18 percent or more, plus three points, with 20 percent down. New home construction is at a virtual standstill. Nonresidential construction prospects also are bleak, but permits have been approved recently for several additional large office buildings in Chicago's Loop area. Agriculture Two years of depressed farm earnings, with little hope of a near-term recovery, has led to weakness in district farmland markets. Reports from many areas indicate little buyer interest at current prices. Our latest survey of agricultural banks shows an average decline of 3 percent in district farmland values during the fourth quarter, with weakness most apparent in Illinois, Indiana, and Iowa. However, with farmland prices in the region four times the level of 10 years ago, equity in land provides a basis for coping with a prolonged period of depressed earnings for most farmers.