Summary Most Fourth District respondents expect the economy to reach its trough near the end of the first quarter, and anticipate recovery in real CNP by year-end in a 3 percent to 4 percent zone. Capital-goods producers are generally pessimistic, citing low capacity utilization and high interest rates. Steel shipments should begin to rise near the end of the first quarter, as the current phase of rapid inventory liquidation by steel users about runs its course. Some relief from steel imports should also boost shipments in the second quarter. Department store sales fell sharply in January, and bank installment loans show weakness. A little improvement is expected in national car sales but car sales locally are very weak. Prospects for house construction, house financing, and savings and loan associations in the District remain dismal. Outlook Most respondents expect the recession to reach its trough near the end of the first quarter, as inventory adjustment is largely completed, although one bank economist expects the trough near the end of the second quarter. All respondents expect the recovery to be sluggish by historical standards with perhaps 3 percent or 4 percent (a.r.) growth in real GNP in the fourth quarter. No respondent looks for either consumer or business spending to surge in 1982. An economist with a major automobile producer asserts that if the July tax cut was canceled or delayed consumer confidence and auto sales would fall sharply. He asserts Chrysler and Ford would go bankrupt, and General Motors would have to sell some non-automotive assets to obtain cash. Capital Goods Capital-goods producers are generally pessimistic, rejecting the notion that capital goods could lead the recovery. To the contrary, some expect a trough next quarter and cite low capacity utilization, sluggish sales of consumer goods, and high interest rates as reasons for expecting a mild second half recovery. One producer sees no sign of higher business spending in response to changes in the tax code, and notes that rising interest rates in the second half could choke off recovery in capital-goods production. A producer of machine cutting tools notes that his shipments are being supported by backlogs, but backlogs are falling rapidly because shipments to customers exceed new orders by a ratio of 3 to 1. Users of his capital goods are still laying off workers and he expects it may be 1983 before real spending on capital goods increases. Another capital-goods producer reports that the long decline in his orders seems to have bottomed out in recent months, but he expects a "U" shaped instead of a "V" shaped recovery. Steel An economist for a major steel producer reports that shipments, new orders, backlogs, and employment at his firm are expected to fall again in January. He expects more layoffs and shorter work weeks in the first quarter. An economist for another major steel producer notes that steel mill inventories are still high, and the near-term production outlook is dismal. Steel users currently are engaged in a very rapid inventory liquidation that he believes will be largely completed in the first quarter, permitting an upturn in shipments at the end of the first quarter. He expects some relief from imports in the second quarter because of anti- dumping and countervailing duty petitions and he expects some stimulus in the third quarter from an increase in steel consumption. He notes some weakness in demand for oil country goods used in shallow wells, although demand for deep well goods is still firm. Inventories Excess inventories of new autos, auto-related products, steel, and aluminum will hold down operating rates to 60 percent or lower at least this month and next. A retailer, however, believes sales of department store-type goods were underestimated in December and that inventories thus were overstated. Consequently, inventory adjustment this quarter should be less than last. A major appliance producer reports that the sharp production cutbacks in recent months were associated more with effects of declining housing starts than with excess retail inventories. Consumer Spending Some respondents believe the trough in real consumer spending occurred in October, although recovery will be sluggish this half year. Sales of department store goods apparently fell sharply in January. One economist notes that price promotions usually held in January were moved to pre-Christmas, causing December to borrow from January sales. Another economist believes January sales were depressed by unusually bad weather. He expects growth in real consumer spending this year of about 2 percent or 2 1/2 percent. Some local bankers report a collapse of demand for installment loans. Automobiles An economist for a major producer looks for slowly rising sales in 1982, from 7.8 million (a.r.) (including imports) this quarter, to 10.0 million (a.r.) in the fourth quarter, assuming no change in the scheduled tax cut and no price reduction from GM/UAW bargaining. First quarter sales should be helped by price promotions (Chrysler and Ford) and introduction of some new models. A large domestic automobile dealer notes that his sales in the first 19 days of January were the worst he has ever experienced. Sales are retarded by high interest rates and customers waiting for price reductions from GM/UAW negotiations. Another dealer of both domestic and foreign automobiles reports that traffic in his import showroom has slowed as much as in his domestic showroom. Housing and Thrifts Officials associated with the thrift industry in the District anticipate a very sluggish recovery in housing starts in 1982. Very little loan business has been transacted because of prevailing mortgage rates. Some officials believe mortgage rates no higher than 14 percent will induce substantial demand, because inflationary psychology is no longer a factor since prices of houses have stopped increasing. They are also skeptical that nonconventional financing will support a recovery, and assert that neither some lenders nor buyers are yet adjusted to variable rate mortgages or other kinds of nonconventional financing. Thrifts are very cautious about commitments and loans because of uncertainty over deposit flows. Many aggressively promoted the new IRA account but one thrift official claims that IRA deposits in January amounted to only three-fourths of one percent of their deposits. He also complains that the new accounts are adding further to their cost of funds, which in 1981 was about 10.9 percent and which he expects will rise to 11.8 percent in 1982. Some officials are also concerned that cash flow generated from repayments of existing mortgages has been cut by almost one-half in the past two years. A few savings and loan associations that made slight profits last year expect losses in 1982. They assert that costs cannot be cut much further because substantial reduction in employment and salaries has already taken place. A major regional builder of houses in the District plans to respond to the bleak outlook by building smaller houses in 1982. He expects mortgage interest rates to be higher in the second half of this year than the first, and will build and market as many new houses as possible this half.