Economic activity has been sending increasingly mixed signals since our last   report. The banking sector improved moderately, led by gains in commercial and   industrial lending. Tourism also strengthened, with holiday bookings expected to   be above year-ago levels. Reports on District labor markets were generally   positive; however, employment agents noted that some manufacturing clients were   cautious about hiring. Residential and commercial real estate agents generally   described activity as mixed. Moreover, manufacturing lost momentum, with several   contacts noting that demand had leveled off in recent weeks. In addition,   revenue growth among non-retail service firms weakened, and retailers said that   sales fell over the last month as shopper traffic dropped sharply. Manufacturing   firms reported that input prices grew at a faster pace since our last report,   but pass-through was limited and price growth at services firms remained   moderate.
Commercial real estate activity was mixed across market segments and   geographic areas of the District over the last month. Pockets of modest strength   were noted in demand for retail space in the Hampton Roads area, as gains in   retail sales in recent months bolstered retailers' confidence, according to a   local Realtor. A West Virginia Realtor reported that the leasing of office space   had picked up, but both retail and industrial demand remained stagnant. However,   the demand for office space in Baltimore was described as "spotty at best" by   one Realtor. A central Virginia Realtor noted improved commercial leasing   activity and modest gains in demand for the retail space, but leasing of   industrial space was unchanged over the last month. A North Carolina Realtor   reported modest, but widespread improvements in leasing, while several contacts   in the D.C. area cited mostly softer leasing activity over the last few weeks.   Contacts generally characterized rents as having stabilized, and several   Realtors stated that banks were more willing to lend than earlier in the year. A   Maryland contact in commercial construction stated that area contractors were   unable to increase prices due to weak demand, but subcontractors were having   more success at passing though increases in commodity costs.
