Economic activity in the Ninth District grew steadily since the last report.   Increased activity was noted in consumer spending, tourism, services, commercial   construction, manufacturing, and energy and mining. Residential construction and   real estate and agricultural activity decreased, while commercial real estate   activity was flat. The job market continued to strengthen moderately since the   last report, while wage increases continued to be modest. Significant price   increases were noted for wholesale items, but retail price increases were   moderate.
While spring tourism activity was soft in many areas due to cold and rainy   weather, tourism officials were optimistic for the summer season. Based on   summer reservation levels, the outlook for Minnesota tourism businesses was   upbeat. Spring tourism activity was slow in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, but   inquiries for summer travel options were up, according to an official.
Commercial real estate markets were steady since the last report. According   to industry analysts in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, office vacancy rates   declined slightly, retail vacancy was flat and industrial vacancy rates did not   change much. Home sales during mid-May in Minneapolis-St. Paul were down from   last year's tax-credit-driven sales, while new listings increased. April home   sales in Billings, Mont., also decreased from last year's tax-credit-driven   sales, while the number of homes available for sale increased. Meanwhile, the   number of homes for sale in both Sioux Falls and Fargo was down from a year ago.   The inventory of homes held by lenders in Minneapolis also increased.   Multifamily housing vacancy rates declined, and rents increased over the past   few months.
Wage increases continued to be modest. According to the preliminary results   of the Minneapolis Fed's mid-year outlook poll, 66 percent expect wages to   increase 2 percent or less. Two placement agencies in Montana reported that   while demand for employment services is up, most wage increases have remained   below 3 percent. However, some Minnesota small businesses were facing increased   wage pressures for professional and skilled labor, but not for unskilled   labor.
Significant price increases were noted for wholesale items, but retail price   increases were moderate. Bank directors reported a number of input price   increases, including petroleum-based products, some metals, rubber, health   insurance and food. Prices of large tires for mining and farm machinery   increased over 50 percent recently. Minnesota gasoline prices were down from   recent peaks, but were still over $1 per gallon more than a year earlier.
