The Eleventh District economy expanded at an accelerated pace over the past   six weeks. In particular, energy sector respondents noted increased activity.   Sectors that had previously reported weak demand, including accounting, legal   and financial services--as well as the construction sector--noted improvement   since the last report. Price pressures remain elevated, and more firms expect to   add to payrolls in coming months.
The price of crude oil stayed over $105 per barrel for much of April before   falling back under $100 in mid-May. Gasoline prices remained elevated during the   reporting period due to concerns about refinery flooding along the Mississippi,   according to contacts. Natural gas prices remained low, in a range between $4.15   to $4.30 per Mcf. Since the last report, prices increased at a strong pace for   many important petrochemical products.
Respondents in high-tech manufacturing said sales and orders remain strong   overall, but demand was mixed. One source of weakening demand was the ripple   effects of the natural disaster in northern Japan as shortages of parts fed into   slowdowns in demand for complementary parts. Several respondents noted a broad   pickup in consumer demand from India and China and, within the US, an increase   in demand for products such as 3-D televisions, tablets and smart phones.   Contacts also reported an increase in orders for semiconductors due to a pickup   in demand from the industrial, medical and auto sectors.
Reports from most paper manufacturers reflected stable to improved orders   stemming from broad-based economic strengthening. Transportation manufacturing   firms said orders were strong and several said demand had risen slightly since   the last report. Respondents in the food industry said sales continued to   increase at a steady pace over the past six weeks and outlooks remained   positive.
Petrochemical firms said supplies were very tight, in part due to restricted   capacity caused by unplanned domestic plant outages, as well as reduced   production in or near the Japanese earthquake zone. Demand remains strong for   most products, and prices are rising. High profits and strong margins for   ethylene producers have led to announcements of several new plants and   expansions in the Gulf Coast and elsewhere. Refiners reported extremely strong   profit margins, and said domestic gasoline inventories were near the bottom of   the normal range.
Automobile sales continue to improve, but inventories will likely be thin in   coming months due to the effects of the tsunami on Japanese manufacturers supply   chains. Contacts expect demand to continue improving at a modest pace throughout   2011.
Reports from transportation services contacts were mostly positive.   Intermodal transportation firms noted an increase in cargo volumes during the   reporting period. Railroad shipments rose moderately, with particularly strong   volume growth in grains, metals, petroleum and chemical products. Container   trade volumes declined but were up from year-ago levels. Growth in small parcel   shipments accelerated during the reporting period buoyed by demand from the   wholesale trade and retail sectors. Airline traffic held steady over the past   six weeks. Demand for travel within the US and to Latin America was solid, but   load factors for international flights to and from the Pacific region remained   weak. Contacts expect modest improvement in airline demand and revenue this   year.
Private nonresidential demand has improved. Leasing activity is growing and   there are reports that industrial and office construction are increasing from   very low levels. Sales of commercial buildings are also picking up across the   District.
