Business activity in the Fourth District continued to expand at a modest pace   since our last report. Manufacturers reported a slight rise in production,   though several noted a softening in market conditions. Freight transport volume   increased for a broad range of manufactured goods. Information received from   retailers remained positive, while auto dealers experienced a slight downturn in   sales. Energy producers noted little change in output. New home construction was   sluggish, whereas nonresidential building is picking up some. The demand for   business credit rose slightly, and activity in consumer lending was mixed.
Rising payrolls were mainly limited to the manufacturing sector.   Staffing-firm representatives noted moderate growth in the number of new job   openings, with vacancies concentrated in health care and manufacturing. Wage   pressures are largely contained. Reports of elevated prices for commodities,   steel, fuel, and other raw materials were common. As a result, manufacturers,   retailers, and freight carriers passed through some of these higher input prices   to their customers.
Manufacturers remain committed to raising capital outlays in the upcoming   months relative to year-ago levels. Nonetheless, about a third of our contacts   reported that they are delaying the start of some projects. Capacity utilization   rates are below what is considered normal for a majority of manufacturers.   Prices for metal and agricultural commodities, steel, and petroleum-based   products remain elevated. Most of our contacts reported passing through some of   these higher input prices to their customers. A few producers commented that   steel and scrap prices have peaked and are expected to begin falling back.   Manufacturers continued hiring at a modest pace, with most new hires being   higher-skilled workers. Several contacts also noted a slight increase in wage   pressures.
Information on nonresidential construction varied widely. However, one aspect   our contacts agreed on was a moderate improvement in inquiries. Activity is   being driven by industrial projects and high-end projects (greater than $100   million) that are now in the construction phase, after several years of   planning. We heard reports of a pullback in healthcare-related work. A majority   of our contacts expect that activity will slowly improve as the year progresses.   Financing is more readily available if developers are willing to increase their   equity share. We heard reports of increased prices for building materials,   particularly for steel. One contact noted that materials suppliers are holding   back price increases due to a lack of demand. Contractors are absorbing rising   materials prices in their margins. General contractors held payrolls steady, and   they expect little, if any, new permanent hiring in the upcoming months.
Auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sales showed a slight downturn during   April and early May. March sales were given a big boost due to regional auto   shows. On a year-over-year basis, vehicle purchases increased for almost all of   our contacts. Demand for smaller, fuel-efficient cars continues to rise, while   inventories were characterized as somewhat low by most dealers and may be   hurting sales. Dealers are cautious in their outlook due to high gas prices and   concern over the availability of vehicles with a Japanese nameplate. Demand for   used cars is fairly strong, especially those that are fuel efficient. However,   scarce inventory is contributing to rising prices. Credit availability and   pricing have improved, and the use of leasing as a credit alternative is   growing. Automakers are now putting in place timetables for dealers to complete   reimaging and expansion of their facilities. The only roadblock from the   dealers' perspective is the ability to obtain financing. Most auto dealers are   beginning to hire on a selective basis.
