Business activity in the Third District has improved overall since the last   Beige Book, although the pace has softened. Manufacturers reported increases in   shipments and new orders in May, although at a much slower pace than the past   two months. Retailers posted slight year-over-year sales increases in May. Motor   vehicle dealers reported a slowdown in sales during May compared with the first   four months of the year. Third District banks reported little overall change in   loan volume outstanding, on balance, since the last Beige Book. Residential real   estate agents said sales have increased seasonally, but house prices have been   flat to down. Contacts in the commercial real estate sector said that market   conditions have shown little change since the first quarter. Service-sector   firms reported modest increases in activity. Business contacts reported further   price increases for inputs as they did in the previous Beige Book. There have   been some retail price increases, and more firms in a range of sectors have   implemented fuel surcharges.
Expectations among Third District business contacts are mostly for slow   growth. Manufacturers forecast a modest rise in shipments and orders during the   next six months. Retailers expect sales to advance slowly on a year-over-year   basis. Auto dealers say the outlook is uncertain. Bankers expect only slight   growth in lending. Contacts in residential real estate expect moderate seasonal   gains in sales, but they expect sales for this year as a whole to be about the   same as sales last year. Contacts in commercial real estate expect conditions to   improve slowly, with markets firming around the end of the year. Service-sector   companies expect continued slow growth.
Third District manufacturers remain mostly positive about business conditions   over the next six months; however, the percent of firms expecting increases fell   off sharply since the last Beige Book, from 66 percent to 36 percent. Among the   firms contacted in May, about 38 percent expect increases in new orders and   shipments, while about 20 percent expect decreases. A little uncertainty has   crept back into manufacturers' expectations, with several contacts citing   "swings" in activity. Capital spending plans over a six-month planning horizon   have changed little since the last Beige Book, with about one-third of firms   projecting increases.
Third District auto dealers generally reported that sales slowed in May from   the pace set from January through April. Some dealers said they were facing   supply constraints resulting from the interruption of Japanese vehicle and parts   production, and some dealers said demand has slowed as consumers reconsider   model preferences in response to higher gasoline prices. Dealers are uncertain   of the future course of sales; most said the sales rate going forward will be   more sensitive to gasoline prices and consumer confidence than it had been   earlier in the year.
Commercial and industrial market conditions in the Third District have shown   little change since the previous Beige Book, according to area nonresidential   real estate contacts, although some noted that office vacancy rates have edged   down slightly in some areas. Rents have been steady in most areas, and   concessions remain common. Contacts in commercial real estate reported that   demand for space in Class A office buildings has strengthened relative to Class   B space as local companies relocate upon lease expirations. "Companies are   trading up for higher quality," one contact said. This trend is expected to   continue for the rest of this year, and any reduction in vacancy rates for less   desirable buildings is expected to lag the modest decline in Class A vacancy   rates that commercial real estate agents forecast for the balance of 2011.   Industrial rents have been flat, but some contacts expect them to rise toward   the end of the year as demand for space grows in the absence of new supply.
Business firms in the region reported mostly steady wages since the last   Beige Book. Reports on nonwage employment costs varied; some firms indicated   that benefits costs, primarily for health insurance, have been stable, but   others indicated that they have had increases ranging up to 10 percent or more   compared with a year ago.
