The economy of the Eighth District has continued to expand at a moderate pace   since our previous report. Manufacturing activity has continued to increase   since the previous report, while activity in the services sector has declined.   Retail sales increased in April and early May over year-earlier levels.   Similarly, auto sales increased over the same period. Residential real estate   activity has continued to decline, and commercial and industrial real estate   market conditions have been mixed. Overall lending at a sample of large District   banks saw little change during the first quarter of 2011 compared with the   fourth quarter of 2010.
Car dealers in the District reported that sales in April and early May were   up, on average, compared with last year's sales. About 58 percent of the car   dealers surveyed saw increases in sales, while 29 percent saw decreases and 13   percent saw no changes. About 38 percent of the car dealers noted that used car   sales had increased relative to new car sales, while 21 percent reported the   opposite. Also, about 29 percent of contacts reported an increase in sales of   low-end vehicles relative to high-end vehicles, while less than 4 percent   reported the opposite. About 57 percent of the car dealers surveyed reported   that their inventories were below desired levels, while 9 percent reported that   their inventories were too high. The sales outlook for June and July was   generally optimistic: About 58 percent of the car dealers expect sales to   increase over 2010 levels.
Activity in the District's services sector has declined since our previous   report. Numerous casinos in the District have been forced to temporarily close   because of flooding on the Mississippi River. Additionally, contacts in the   telephone call center, health care, business support, and support activities for   transportation industries reported plans to decrease operations in the District   and lay off employees. In contrast, a contact in the nursing care industry   announced plans to expand operations and hire new workers.
Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions were mixed. Compared   with the fourth quarter of 2010, first quarter 2011 suburban office vacancy   rates increased in St. Louis, decreased in Little Rock and Louisville, and   remained constant in Memphis. The downtown office vacancy rates increased in   Louisville and St. Louis, decreased in Memphis, and stayed the same in Little   Rock. Industrial vacancy rates decreased for Louisville, Memphis, and St. Louis   but increased for Little Rock. Commercial and industrial construction activity   remained slow throughout most of the District. Contacts in Little Rock noted   that commercial construction has remained fairly weak. Contacts in St. Louis and   northwest Arkansas also noted weak commercial construction activity. In   contrast, some contacts in southwestern Illinois and Kentucky noted that overall   construction has increased recently.
