Sixth District business contacts reported that economic activity moderated   somewhat in April and May. Retailers experienced a deceleration in sales and   traffic, which they attributed to periods of adverse weather and high gasoline   prices. Tourism-related spending, however, increased across all segments of the   industry. Homebuilders noted continued low levels of sales and construction,   while brokers cited modest improvements in sales and traffic. In spite of   declines in residential inventories, prices also decreased for both new and   existing homes. Commercial contractors reported that new construction activity   remained weak. Overall, the majority of manufacturers continued to report   increases in new orders and production. Auto manufacturers, however, reduced   production because of supply constraints stemming from the Japanese earthquake.   The late April tornadoes in several states and flooding on the lower Mississippi   River had a significant impact on economic activity in the directly affected   areas, but no major damage to the energy or transportation infrastructure was   reported. Bankers reported that loan demand had improved slightly from weak   levels. Labor markets continued to improve gradually across the District. Firms   expressed concern over rising commodity costs as margins remained tight and   productivity gains became more difficult to realize.
Tourism activity improved further throughout the District. Occupancy and room   rates were boosted by increases in both business and leisure travel. Convention   and cruise bookings have increased as well. Overall, contacts in the travel   industry remained optimistic. Several restaurant contacts reported that sales   were somewhat softer and that higher food prices had led to tighter margins.
District residential brokers indicated that existing home sales growth   remained slightly ahead of the year-earlier level, but softened somewhat from   March to April. However, the majority of Florida brokers continued to experience   gains. Florida contacts again noted that distressed sales and cash buyers were   significant drivers of activity.
Both residential builders and brokers indicated that housing inventories   eased on a year-over-year basis. District brokers noted more modest price   declines than earlier this year, while most builders continued to cite downward   pressure on home prices. Brokers reported that buyer traffic improved, while   builders indicated weaker buyer interest.
Nonresidential construction activity remained at low levels during April and   May. Commercial brokers indicated that most markets continued to stabilize, but   the pace of activity remained slow. Growing demand for apartments spurred an   increase in multifamily development in several parts of the region. Overall,   commercial construction activity is expected to remain at low levels for the   rest of the year.
Firms' expectations for unit cost increases have moderated slightly since the   beginning of the year as their outlook for labor and benefits costs were revised   down. However, prices of commodity-linked materials continued to rise and   downward price pressures from productivity gains were noted as tapering off.   District contacts continued to report that margins remain squeezed and their   ability to raise selling prices was mixed.
Much of the District experienced difficult weather conditions in April and   May. An abnormally cold, wet spring and severe storms have delayed planting in   some areas. Producers of poultry, cattle, and timber experienced losses as a   result of the tornadoes as well. Many farmers in Mississippi and Louisiana are   experiencing some degree of flooding from the Mississippi. Prices for many of   the District's agricultural products remained strong, particularly cotton,   soybeans, and beef, although the recent record-high cotton prices have declined   because of some pull back in global demand.
