Summary The sorry state of economic conditions in the Seventh District reported in earlier Redbooks has not improved. Employment, output, and new orders in the manufacturing sector continued to decline in November. Normal plant shutdowns over the holidays commonly will be extended. The retrenchment in capital goods is unprecedented in the postwar era. The industrial base of the equipment and automotive industries is contracting as more plants are closed. Retail sales continue sluggish, with the Christmas season disappointing so far. Residential construction should improve significantly in 1983 if interest rates stay down. The heavy oversupply of new office space is causing rents to decline. Widespread price cutting in wholesale markets frequently means sales below cost. No sign of improvement from depressed levels is noted in the agricultural sector. Business demand for short-term funds is down sharply. Business Sentiment Chronic hard times are taking a toll in reduced long-term confidence for both managers and workers. Morale has been depressed by abortive improvements in demand, which were assessed, erroneously, as heralding solid revival. In the past month, District analysts in retailing, paperboard, and cement have noted the evaporation of what had appeared to be promising signs. The Chicago Purchasing Management Association summarized the views of its members on December 7: "The expected recovery has not materialized. All key indicators remain strongly negative." Lower Break-Even Points Some companies are confident that they can maintain profitability at sharply reduced levels of operation. Break-even points have been drastically lowered by large, permanent cuts in personnel, closing of marginal facilities, sales of unprofitable divisions, scaling down operations by purchasing more parts and services, elimination of less essential functions, and stringent cost control. Such restructuring could bring rapid increases in profits if and when revenues rise significantly. Consumer Purchases General merchandise retailers have been unhappy with Christmas sales after a promising start in November. Part, but not all, of the shortfall is attributed to unseasonably warm weather in some weeks, including early December. Virtually all product lines are slow. One large chain has increased sales of household durables by heavy promotions. The largest airline reports passenger traffic up substantially since August, but this reflects bargain fares and free bonus flights. Employment Losses Payroll employment in the five Seventh District states in the fall was 8 percent below the same period of prosperous 1976, while employment in the U.S. was one percent higher. Manufacturing employment in the District was down 25 percent in this comparison. Michigan, of course, has the largest decline. Wisconsin, specializing in capital equipment, has the smallest decline in the District, but its situation has deteriorated very rapidly in the past 12 months. Many manufacturing jobs are gone forever as plants have been closed. Jobless Funds State jobless pay funds have been strained as unemployment has remained at high rates for extended periods. The Illinois and Michigan funds each have debts of almost $2 billion to the federal Treasury. Debts of Iowa and Wisconsin are growing. Indiana, despite its severe unemployment problem, has no such debt because of legal restrictions. Proposals to raise employer contributions to jobless funds are opposed as likely to encourage additional migration of industry. Labor Negotiations The Caterpillar strike that began October 1 has affected many smaller companies that supply components. Management insists that substantial labor contract concessions must be made to reduce an estimated 40 percent cost advantage held by foreign competitors. The Chrysler dispute apparently is being resolved, with the UAW winning its key demand for an immediate wage hike. With the year drawing to a close, it appears that, by-and-large, organized labor is winning its fight to prevent "take-aways of hard-won gains". (The rank-and-file has been more adamant against concessions than union leaders.) Unfortunately, the failure to cut unit production costs substantially in major hard goods industries implies a further erosion of the region's industrial base as producers step up efforts to seek foreign sources for components or finished goods. Inventories Although most businesses are still attempting to cut inventories, holdings remain excessive in lines where sales have been even weaker than expected, e.g. apparel, paperboard, and some motor vehicles. Nevertheless, inventories will have to rise in some sectors, including residential building, if demand increases only moderately. A major producer of diesel engines that are mainly used in heavy trucks has recalled some workers. Demand for trucks has not improved, but engine production had been below usage and inventories had been exhausted. Capital Goods Prospects for business equipment in the Seventh District are even worse than in earlier months. Conditions vary by company and line but, overall, no earlier post-war recession was nearly so bad. Bookings are off 10 to 65 percent from reduced levels of a year ago at various companies. One diversified equipment producer is operating at 50 percent of capacity, while another is at 25 percent. Castings production also is at about 25 percent of capacity. Foreign demand, which had been relatively good for some products, has ebbed in recent months. Among the worst lines are equipment for railroads, trucking, agriculture, construction, mining, and metalworking. Capital goods firms have drastically cut corporate staff, including those in design and development, to an extent that could harm competitive positions in future years. Motor Vehicles The spurt in auto sales in November, aided by favorable credit terms, is not regarded as a clear indication of an improvement in demand. Some auto dealers dislike temporary incentive programs, because sales almost invariably decline afterwards. Instead, they would prefer lower prices. Steel Steel demand remained very depressed in December. Bookings are beginning to show up for January, but probably because of the desire of customers to have inventories at rock bottom for year-end financial statements. Steel companies have learned that customers' normal holiday shutdowns will commonly be extended into January, perhaps into February. Construction While residential building is expected to increase significantly in the new year, nonresidential construction is almost certain to be down. Capital expenditure programs are being canceled or stretched out by manufacturers and public utilities. The glut of new office space in the Chicago area has caused rents to drop by 11 percent in the past year. A large office leasing firm has filed for bankruptcy because of its liability on blocks of space contracted for at rates above the current market level.