Overview According to business contacts, the Southeast economy continued to expand through May and early June, but at a more subdued pace than earlier in the year. Most retailers reported an unseasonably large drop in May sales, although some noted a rebound in consumer spending in the first week of June. Auto dealers also noted a slowdown in sales in May. While home sales slowed modestly in the last month, contractors report that single-family home building remains brisk. Multifamily and commercial real estate markets continue to improve, with several new apartment and commercial developments being announced in the last month. Bankers, however, generally report that business and consumer loan demand was flat in May. Wages and prices were reported to be stable for the most part, although several manufacturers said that they have begun to pay higher prices for raw materials. Consumer Spending After posting strong gains in the first quarter, retailers throughout the District reported disappointing sales in late April and May. However, most contacts noted an upturn over the Memorial Day weekend and stronger sales in the first week of June. Women's apparel sales, which had improved earlier this year, softened in May, and sales of men's and children's apparel also slowed. As a result, several retailers reported that they have had some unintended inventory accumulation. According to contacts, pricing at both the wholesale and retail level remains very competitive, with several merchants reporting deep discounting. Although retailers generally have revised downward their projections for sales through the summer and early fall, many remain hopeful that back-to-school shopping will be relatively strong this year. Manufacturing According to factory contracts, industrial production rebounded slightly in May after slowing modestly in April. Suppliers of building materials continue to report increases in production and new orders, although rising interest rates have led some producers to adjust downward their long-term demand projections. Suppliers to the auto industry continue to receive a steady stream of new orders, and several firms reported that they have begun to invest in new plant and equipment in order to meet expected future increases in demand. Producers of industrial equipment and machinery noted that they have extended their avenge workweeks to meet recent increases in the volume of new orders. District carpet producers report that order backlogs have risen, while strong demand for bedding and healthcare textiles reportedly has stimulated new hiring at several firms in this industry. On a less positive note, NASA and Defense Department budget cuts continue to produce layoffs at regional aerospace and defense electronics firms, particularly in Florida and Alabama. Tourism Reports from tourism industry contacts were mixed in May. In Florida, contacts said that tourism has been flat in key market areas, largely because of competition from other vacation destinations and negative publicity about crime. Convention business in the state, however, has been better than anticipated, and is expected to remain good through the end of the year. Similarly, convention business in New Orleans and Atlanta has been unexpectedly strong this year. Casino gambling along Mississippi's Gulf coast continues to draw large numbers of visitors to the area. Tourism in the state of Alabama also was reported to be up significantly over year-ago levels. Construction According to District realtors, May home sales were down slightly compared with last year's relatively strong levels. Although they said that rising mortgage rates initially stimulated an increase in home buying from fence sitters' pushed into the market, more recently they have begun to put a brake on single-family home sales. Nevertheless, most contacts continue to characterize current sales levels as very good. Mid-priced homes have replaced starter homes as the most popular sellers, while sales of luxury homes also have improved. Although District building contractors have noted a decrease in traffic through new subdivisions, the pace of new home construction remains brisk. The rising cost of home building materials continues to push new home prices higher, but most realtors and builders remain optimistic that new and existing homes will continue to sell well into the fall. Contacts in commercial and multifamily real estate markets report sustained improvement in these sectors. Multifamily occupancy rates continue to rise, and rental rates also have been increasing. New apartment developments have been announced recently in many areas of the District. Commercial real estate agents report that falling vacancy rates and rising rental rates have led to the possibility that some speculative building may occur within the next year. Currently, most construction continues to be build-to-suit and public buildings, although the number of these projects has increased in the last few months. Financial Services According to District bankers, overall loan demand remains flat in the Southeast. While some reported that business loan demand improved slightly in May, others noted that consumer lending, particularly auto loans, had weakened. Residential mortgage refinancings have dried up completely, while mortgages for home purchases were down slightly compared with month-ago levels. Wages and Prices Reports of increasing wage pressures continue to be limited to those areas where skilled construction workers are in great demand. Although some manufacturing contacts have reported price increases for raw materials, competitive market forces have made it difficult for firms to pass these costs on in terms of higher prices for finished goods.