Economic activity continues to pick up in the First District. Among manufacturers, the recovery appears to have broadened considerably. Retailers, by contrast, seem to fall into either a high- growth or a no-growth camp. While prices charged by manufacturing and retail contacts are generally holding steady, some materials costs reportedly are increasing. Retail First District retail sales results varied widely in recent months. Two discount specialty chains reported increases in sales of roughly 20 percent in April and May compared to year-earlier levels. By contrast, other retail contacts experienced a drop in sales for one or both months, which they attribute to unseasonably cool weather, rising interest rates, and a truckers' strike. Even these retailers, however, have seen a sharp rise in shopping since the arrival of hot weather just before Memorial Day, especially for summer goods, such as garden supplies, patio furniture, and barbecue equipment. Retail contacts' expectations also vary widely, with a range from 0 to 20 percent in anticipated sales growth over the next six months compared to a year earlier. Most contacts report little or no change in their own or vendor prices, with the exception of increases for wood products. Many retailers say they are struggling to maintain gross margins by cutting operating costs and reducing inventories. Employment levels remain flat, but a few contacts plan major capital expansions this year or next. Manufacturing Overall manufacturing sales growth appears to be accelerating, according to reports from First District contacts. Producers of automotive parts, computer components, and residential construction materials note double-digit rates of increase from a year ago. Sales of industrial machinery and replacement parts are rising strongly, with some contacts remarking that this phenomenon is relatively new. Makers of aircraft parts report scattered increases in demand, while noting broader signs of weakness in aerospace. Demand for consumer nondurables is growing in the low single-digit to low double-digit range. Contacts report declining medical equipment and mixed utility equipment sales. Manufacturers producing consumer nondurables have increased prices by 2 to 5 percent, but most others report no possibility of raising prices. A majority of respondents cite some materials cost increases. Prices of steel, aluminum, copper, paper, chemicals, and plastics are reported to be creeping up, although one producer notes that paper prices remain below their level of a year ago. Prices of cotton and flax fibers have risen noticeably since the beginning of the year. Most contacts do not appear concerned about materials inflation, in part because some other costs are falling. One-third of the respondents report success in negotiating reductions in purchased goods and services prices. Half express intentions to continue to prune their work force or introduce other efficiencies. Manufacturers generally expect continued growth in the U.S. economy and their own business. However, those who depend on consumer durables spending expect their growth to slow as a result of rising interest rates. Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate markets are improving throughout most of New England, except Connecticut. Vacancy rates in the Boston area office market continue to decline, with the conventional wisdom now suggesting that new office construction will be proposed in Boston within two or three years. Portland is reported to have limited availability of class A space. Hartford office vacancy rates are increasing. The nonresidential construction industry is reported to be in fairly good shape after a hard winter, with one contact reporting that new business is coming from renovations of existing retail and institutional space. Margins are up and are expected to continue to rise. Nonbank Financial Services Investment management companies report that after a very strong first quarter, mutual fund sales have slowed considerably in April and May. The decrease was primarily in bond funds and was attributed to rising interest rates. Sales of equity funds continue to grow, though more slowly than in the first quarter, with international funds particularly popular. Even after the recent slowdown, the investment companies surveyed plan to increase employment at least 2 to 3 percent in 1994. The Outlook The New England Economic Project (NEEP), a nonprofit forecasting group, released its semi-annual regional forecast in mid-May. NEEP projects 2 percent growth in total New England employment in 1994. Work forces in construction, services, and retail trade are expected to expand at above-average rates, while manufacturing employment in the region continues to contract.