Overview District economic activity increased moderately in May and early June. Tourism was robust, particularly over the Memorial Day weekend. Manufacturing indicators and retail sales increased, but service-producing firm activity rose only moderately and trade volume through District ports changed little. Mortgage lending activity declined although conditions in commercial real estate and housing improved. Reports indicated scattered labor shortages and some modest upward pressure on prices. In agriculture, spring planting neared completion, but some crops experienced heat stress. Consumer Spending Respondents to a regular mail survey indicated that District retail activity increased in May. Retailers reported gains in employment, wages, and sales, including those of big-ticket items. Other contacts, however, noted that auto sales weakened after April 15. Survey respondents indicated that retail prices increased 0.4 percent in May and foresaw price increases of 1.1 percent during the next six months. Looking ahead, retailers expected demand for their products to strengthen in the coming months. Manufacturing A mail survey of District manufacturers showed increased factory activity in May. Shipments, new orders, and employment were higher in recent weeks. Finished goods prices increased slightly, and raw materials prices rose by less than the general inflation rate. Producers expected no change in employment, a longer average workweek, lower finished goods inventories, and a slight increase in prices during the next six months. Service-Producing Sector District service-producing firms indicated that activity increased moderately in May. Revenues and wages rose, but employment was steady. Respondents reported a 0.6 percent increase in the prices of their services. They expected that in the coming months their prices would rise 1.4 percent and demand for their services would increase. Tourism A telephone survey of hotels, motels, and resorts throughout the District indicated robust tourist activity in recent weeks. Over the Memorial Day weekend, many beach areas were booked to capacity and several reported record-setting activity. Other tourist areas also experienced strong increases in bookings, which they attributed to unusually favorable weather and a surge in group reservations. Based on current bookings, respondents anticipated that summer tourist activity would far exceed last year's level. Ports Representatives at the ports of Baltimore, Charleston, and Hampton Roads (Norfolk) indicated that the volumes of exports and imports remained about the same in May as in April. Compared to a year ago, imports were higher and exports were unchanged. Baltimore and Hampton Roads expected exports to increase faster than imports during the next six months, but Charleston expected no change in activity. Finance District financial institutions indicated that credit conditions were mixed during the last six weeks. Interest rates rose on both commercial and consumer loans. Consumer loan demand remained fairly strong, but commercial loan demand declined slightly. Mortgage lenders indicated that originations were relatively slow and that refinancing activity virtually disappeared. Commercial and mortgage loan officers were cautious but optimistic about loan demand in the months ahead. Residential Real Estate According to District contacts, housing sales and building permits were steady in April and May, but buyer traffic decreased. Homebuilders indicated that they started fewer houses because of the recent rise in mortgage rates and their uncertainty about future rates. Home prices remained stable, although lumber prices and construction wages increased. Some builders reported that non-lumber materials prices also rose, but at a slower pace than in previous months. Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate improved further in recent weeks, according to industry analysts. Office building vacancy rates fell in most areas of the District, but were unchanged in northern Maryland and in West Virginia. Commercial rents were steady, but contacts expected slight increases in the near future. The availability of large blocks of office space continued to tighten, particularly around Charlotte and Washington, D.C. Some construction of office buildings for owner/occupants was underway across the District, but no new speculative projects were reported. Several contacts indicated that renovations of older office buildings temporarily lessened the need for new office building construction in their areas. Large discount retailers continued to expand in North Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia, and demand for warehouse space remained strong in northern Maryland and in Greenville, S.C. State Revenues State government tax revenues continued to grow at healthy rates in most areas of the District. Based on May sales tax receipts, state forecasters indicated that retail sales ranged from "good" in Maryland to 'booming" in North Carolina. Analysts suggested that overall revenue collections were consistent with real economic growth rates of 2.5 to 3.5 percent, except in the District of Columbia, where revenue growth was just keeping pace with inflation. Agriculture Unseasonably warm, dry weather in recent weeks aided farmers' planting and harvesting activity but stressed some recently planted crops. District planting activity was ahead of its normal pace, as was the harvesting of wheat and other small grains in the Carolinas. Early yields indicated that the small grain crop had not been substantially damaged by the severe cold of last winter. Inadequate soil moisture in many areas of the District, however, hampered the development of corn, soybeans, and peanuts. In West Virginia, the peach crop was in poor condition as a result of damage to orchards from last winter's ice storms.