Summary Sharply rising interest rates have caused most respondents in the Fourth District to adjust their 1981 forecasts downward, with several now expecting at least one quarterly decline in real GNP in the first quarter. Capital goods producers continue to experience weakening orders, especially in machine tools. Orders in the primary metals industry continue to hold up surprisingly well, but industry spokesmen expect a decline next quarter in response to a weakening economy. Post-Thanksgiving day department store sales have been better than expected, but several area retailers are concerned about softening Christmas season sales because of rising interest rates. Bankers report continued weak loan demand. S&Ls expect an intensified profit squeeze as costs rise and loan demand slackens because of rising mortgage rates. Outlook Although a sluggish recovery was generally anticipated at the Fourth District Economists' Roundtable meeting on November 7, most participants now expect a decline in real GNP in the first and possibly second quarters of 1981. Several bank economists envision the negative quarters as part of a continuation of the 1980 recession. The release of pent-up demand following credit restraints provided a brief third quarter recovery in consumer spending and economic activity. Positive quarters during a recession are not uncommon, such as occurred during the 1973-75 recession. However, interest rates never went to double-digit levels, notes a bank economist, because inflation was viewed as a short-term problem. Now, inflation is viewed as a serious long-term problem. Several business economists anticipate at best a flat first half and a strong recovery in the second half of 1981 based on tax cuts, pent- up demand, and falling interest rates. A business economist notes that, despite rising industrial production, inventories are still generally tight and inventory liquidation is unlikely to sustain a recession. Capital Goods Although capital spending remains weak, industry officials state that the decline in orders has not been as sharp as in some past recessions and the worst is probably over. While their overall order pattern was late in turning down (i.e., orders were strong until July), a machine tool producer notes that orders remain strong from energy and aerospace industries. Cancellations from the auto industry have not occurred, but softening of machine tool orders in the first quarter of 1981 is expected as major programs reach completion. A producer of trucks and heavy equipment reports that orders are not showing strength from recent very low levels. Investment in trucks is not taking place, except for replacement. Despite the unlikeliness of a strong recovery, a capital goods producer expects such positive factors as defense spending and an underlying need to modernize to provide a good recovery in capital spending, especially in the second half of 1981. Primary Metals November orders in the steel and aluminum industries have held up surprisingly well, according to industry economists. November's volume of steel orders was slightly above October's rate, although a steel economist reports signs of a tapering off toward the end of the month. Bookings in January remain solid, including flat-roll products, and even February has shown no letup. Nevertheless, orders in February and March are expected to slacken as effects of rising interest rates and tax increases dampen consumer durable goods, housing and producers' goods. The turnaround in steel this quarter to about 80 percent of capacity from a low of about 50 percent last summer, largely represents a swing in inventories from substantial liquidation last quarter to a mild buildup in December. Aluminum orders, reports an industry economist, have been supported by the relative strength in defense, aerospace and auto sectors. Although normally a net importer, the country has been a net exporter for 14 months. However, with a worldwide slump underway, orders are expected to drop. Retail Sales Several retailers report stronger-than-expected sales the day after Thanksgiving. A department store official states that sales are currently doing well, compared to last year, with the heaviest volume days yet to come. Inventories appear to be adequate, but in some cases are lean. However, pre-Christmas discounting may still be necessary to avoid an unwanted overhang. An economist with a major retail chain in the District expects an 8 percent year-over-year increase in December's GAF sales, and a slight increase in real PCE in the fourth quarter from the third quarter level. However, an apparel producer estimates a 5 to 6 percent decrease in company sales over the next six months. While several area automotive dealers are concerned about sales, an industry economist reports that small cars continue to sell relatively well despite rising interest rates. An area auto dealer states that rebates are essential to sales and notes that domestic producers are beginning to provide credit support for dealers. An auto industry economist states that production schedules are already being adjusted downward to minimize inventory overhang. Banking Consumer and business loans are still relatively weak, according to several area bankers, partly because many consumer loan applications are being rejected. A bank economist notes that the volume of outstanding consumer loans declined in recent weeks, which is unusual for this time of year. Auto loans have been the most interest-sensitive consumer loans in recent weeks and declines in loan applications have been more than seasonal. A bank official notes that a disproportionate share of auto loans is for 1980 models at the expense of 1981 models, reflecting higher cost of new models. Loans for dealer floor plans are off because some dealers still have sizable 1980 inventories, which must be reduced before banks will risk financing higher inventories. Some pickup in business loans has occurred in the last month, according to a bank economist, as corporations avoid long-term markets. Mortgage Lending Weak mortgage loan demand and the rising cost of funds are causing serious earnings pressure on area S&Ls. However, an economist with a regional FHLB in the District notes that the improvement in earnings that began in August has continued through October, and probably in November, although profit declines are expected by January 1981. Earnings next quarter could be worse than in early 1980, but the net worth condition of S&Ls is strong enough to sustain profit declines. While conventional mortgage rates on 80 percent loans range between 14 and 15 1/2 percent, an S&L official states that preferential rates are being offered by some banks to move unsold new homes. While savings flows have been good in November, mainly because of money market certificates, several S&L officials state the funds are used either to repay advances or to invest in money markets.