Last month, the Ninth District's recovery was again sluggish. Between October and November, general merchandise sales and manufacturing production expanded very modestly, mining activity remained weak but showed signs of improving, and car and home sales declined. Mirroring these weaknesses was the continuing sluggishness in commercial bank lending. Agricultural conditions, however, were quite strong, even though price changes were mixed. Consumer Spending Consumer spending remained sluggish. November's gains in general merchandise sales matched October's modest increases, according to bank directors and major Minneapolis/St. Paul retailers. Not only were consumers hesitant to purchase general merchandise, but they cut back their auto and home purchases. The modest pickup in car sales noted in our last Redbook report did not carry over into November, as bank directors and regional sales offices indicate that car sales declined between October and November. Home sales, which have been declining since September, also fell last month, as the dollar value of mortgage loan applications at Minneapolis/St. Paul area S&Ls dropped 25 percent. Industrial Production and Inventories Industrial activity also continued to be sluggish. Bank directors report that manufacturing production rose modestly in November as it did in October. This is consistent with a University of Minnesota survey which indicates that Minnesota manufacturers have been increasing production, but not enough to start hiring more workers. This slow growth, directors believe, stems from recent interest rate increases pushing up inventory costs and causing businesses to cut back on their ordering. Unlike manufacturing activity, mining activity has at least been improving, although it is still slow. Iron ore inventories have been reduced enough in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan so that iron ore production was increased modestly in November. And in Montana, the copper mining strike which began July 1 was settled in November. Financial Developments Because the district's recovery continued to be sluggish, bank lending continued to be weak. Directors from outside the Minneapolis/St. Paul area indicate that their areas' banks still have plenty of funds to lend, and that lending did not pick up in November. In the Twin Cities, banks also have funds to lend, but loans outstanding at commercial banks did increase modestly between October and November. Agricultural Conditions In contrast to the sluggishness elsewhere, farm conditions were generally strong. Last summer and early this fall, good growing conditions and rising crop and livestock prices boosted farm income considerably. The income of crop farmers, who account for about half of the district's farm income, continued to rise in November. In Minneapolis between October and November, the average cash prices for corn and wheat rose about 5 percent, and for soybeans 9.6 percent. Farmers have been able to take advantage of these higher prices, as no transportation bottlenecks have been encountered. Despite the sizable increase in crop prices, however, district gains in farm income were probably held down somewhat by declines in livestock prices. In St. Paul, the average cash prices for cattle and hogs fell about 5 percent between October and November.