Fifth District business was characterized by change in November. In most sectors and in most areas that change was toward somewhat weaker performance. Some areas of strength seem to have emerged, however. Retail sales, in particular, picked up over the past month according to our survey. Sales of consumer durables have kept pace recently but have not reversed earlier declines. Manufacturers surveyed report declines in new orders, order backlogs, inventories, and employment over the latest survey period. Inventories, of other than automobiles, have not become a problem for most businesses. Housing sales and construction showed renewed weakness in recent weeks after having recovered somewhat in most areas. Price increases continue widespread. The outlook for business activity over the next six months remains generally positive. Consumer Spending Sales at department stores showed some improvement over the past month. One respondent terms the improvement over the past two weeks dramatic. Pervasive strength is not evident, however. Sales of big items and such lines as building materials continue to languish. Inventories are up from a month ago and are somewhat above desired levels. Inventories will not present a problem to most retailers unless Christmas sales come in substantially below expectations. Current expectations are apparently for healthy, though unspectacular, Christmas sales. Sales in the automobile sector remain soft and inventories are of some concern there. The Manufacturing Sector Manufacturers surveyed recently report shipments holding steady but new orders, order backlogs, and inventories all declined over the past month. Employment and the length of the average workweek were also down from a month earlier. These declines, while not deep, seem to have cut across most industry groups. The effects appear to have been greatest in the electrical machinery and equipment group and least in the furniture industry. Inventories, while declining in absolute terms, also fell relative to desired levels. There remains some concern over current stocks, but this concern seems to have diminished over the last month. There appears to have been some effort among manufacturers to draw down inventories slightly. Many have been able to do so without significantly reducing production. Monitoring inventories carefully, many manufacturers have allowed minor gains in shipments in recent months to reduce inventories while production was held stable. Current plant and equipment capacity remains above desired levels, but there is some scattered sentiment for enlarging expansion plans. Increases in prices, other than employee compensation, were more widespread last month than in other recent survey periods. Housing Almost all of our directors questioned perceive a weakening of housing activity over the last month or so. In several areas housing starts are described as nearly nonexistent. Single-family starts, and particularly speculative building, are severely depressed almost across the district. Some multi-family construction is being supported by subsidy programs. Inventories of new and resale housing units are substantial. Sales activity is also down in recent weeks. In many areas the improvement registered in late summer has been lost. In some areas no improvement developed and housing activity is continuing to trend downward. Expectations are that there will be little improvement before spring. The Economic Outlook Despite recent reverses in business activity, survey respondents remain generally optimistic. Manufacturers expecting activity to improve over the next six months out number those who expect a worsening by about two to one. Nearly half of those surveyed expect the level of business activity nationally to improve, while nearly as many expect improvement in their respective firms and market areas. Half the retailers surveyed expect similar improvement. The Financial Sector Commercial and industrial lending has been very nearly level recently. Lenders expect little change in business loan demand in coming months. For the most part lenders left have standards of credit worthiness unchanged. Their response to market conditions has been almost entirely in the form of interest rate increases. There have been only moderate increases in consumer installment debt in recent weeks. Richmond directors expect little change in the near future although some feel that consumer installment debt may rise slightly in the near term.