Overview Reports from Reserve Banks this month indicate, on balance, a definite weakening in the economy, with widespread prospects for a W-shaped recession resulting from sharply rising interest rates. While manufacturing is generally slowing, modest gains in orders are still prevalent. Inventories at the manufacturing and retailing levels are considered to be satisfactory, but in some cases are described as lean. Consumer spending in the early part of the Christmas season has been disappointing, but retailers expect heavy discounting to provide a strong finish. Bank loan demand is weak, with business loans generally holding up better than consumer loans. Mortgage lending is depressed, as rates reach as high as 16 percent in some districts. Farm price increases have strengthened the agricultural sector. Outlook The effect of rising interest rates on housing, autos, and business investment is blamed for a weakening economic outlook. Economic activity in the past month has been relatively unchanged in Boston and St. Louis, but is becoming sluggish in most other Reserve Banks. Only Atlanta reports strengthening, except for housing and auto sectors. Expectations of a resumption of recession are mentioned by Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, and San Francisco. Several bank economists in Cleveland now view the recent recovery as a temporary lull from the recession. Respondents in New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Richmond expect conditions to improve by the second half of 1981. Manufacturing Activity Sluggish or slowing manufacturing activity is indicated in Boston, Chicago, Minneapolis, St. Louis, and Kansas City. However, high interest rates have not prevented widespread gains in manufacturing employment in Atlanta, or increases in new orders in Boston and Chicago. Manufacturing has improved somewhat in Dallas, based on strength in chemical and energy industries. Richmond reports mild declines that cut across most industry groups, while Philadelphia reports a sharp downturn in early December. Cleveland and Chicago are experiencing sustained strength in steel orders, partly related to a turnaround of inventories, but both report that no revival in capital goods orders has occurred yet. Some machine toolmakers in New York report weakening sales. Inventories Inventories are generally reported to be under tight control at both manufacturing and retailing levels, mostly because of the high cost of financing. Several Reserve Banks note that inventories of some items are quite lean at the retail level. However, inventory problems with autos and housing are cited by Boston and Richmond. St. Louis and Cleveland expect quick adjustments to inventories, notably in steel and autos, following an economic slowdown. Chicago reports that retailers may still find January liquidation sales necessary despite clamps on stocks. Consumer Spending Retail sales have shown mild strength in Kansas City, Dallas, Richmond, and Atlanta, but are flat or sluggish in most other Reserve Banks. Heavy traffic is reported by Chicago, but buying is said to be restrained, especially for big-ticket items. Consumer durable sales fell substantially in San Francisco, and Richmond reports durable goods sales remain weak. Heavy promotions are reported in most districts and are the basis for relative optimism among retailers for a healthy Christmas season. Auto Sales Auto sales are generally described as weak or declining, according to most Reserve Banks, because of rising interest rates and high prices on new models. Sales are off in Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. Some gains are noted in Boston over year-ago levels and in St. Louis over summer levels, but dealers view such gains as unsatisfactory. While domestic sales are stagnant in New York, foreign car sales picked up. Dallas sales are hampered by a usury ceiling that makes auto loans unprofitable. Some banks in Cleveland and Chicago are reluctant to finance dealer floor plans. Housing Mortgage lending activity continues to weaken, with Boston, Chicago, Atlanta, and San Francisco experiencing a virtual halt in mortgage loans. Mortgage rates at or near 16 percent in Chicago and San Francisco are apparently the highest in the nation. Philadelphia reports that seasonal declines and tight mortgage money have contributed to curtailed sales at a level 40 to 65 percent below last June. The difficulty over qualifying for financing is particularly noted by San Francisco, while St. Louis reports that three-fourths of loan applications are rejected. Some banks in Cleveland are providing preferential rates to builders who they financed, and St. Louis reports that builders are subsidizing home buyers by offering below market rates. Banking Although loan demand is generally soft, some improvements in business loan demand are cited by Dallas, Kansas City, and St. Louis. Sources of the loan strength are restricted to energy and agricultural industries, although business loans in St. Louis appear to be supporting Christmas inventories. Richmond reports a mild increase in installment credit. Bankers in Minneapolis state that funds are available, and several districts report that deposit growth is supported by large CDs. Both St. Louis and San Francisco stress that much of the business borrowing is short-term. Strong business loan demand, centered in inventory financing and in substitution of business loans for commercial paper, is also reported by New York. Agriculture Agricultural production and farm income are relatively strong as a result of rising farm prices. St. Louis reports a sharp increase in wheat acreage and expects a substantial increase in double cropping of wheat acreage in 1981, if prices hold. Kansas City states that credit conditions have shown sustained improvement and Dallas notes an increase in the usage of Government agencies for loans at lower interest rates than banks. However, farm income prospects have dimmed in Atlanta, as prices for meat, citrus crops, and cotton decline.