Summary Fears are growing that the economy is slipping back into a recession. Christmas traffic is heavy at outlying shopping malls, but actual buying is said to be restrained, especially for Big Ticket items. Forecasts for autos and trucks are being scaled down. Sharply higher interest rates are putting a damper on many activities, but there is no sudden, drastic impact such as occurred last March and April. The strongest sectors are electronics, computers, telecommunications, oil and gas development, and defense. Steel operations are holding at an improved rate. Most other sectors are weak, both for consumer and business products. Housing activity has practically come to a halt except for site preparations. Inflation is accelerating. Fuel supplies appear adequate for the winter, but problems may begin to appear next spring. Output and employment Purchasing managers in Chicago and Milwaukee reported higher output in November, but employment was stable or lower. New orders rose in November, but backlogs continued to decline. Prices and wages Last August only about one-third of the purchasing managers in Chicago and Milwaukee reported paying higher prices, while about 10 percent reported lower prices. In November, over 60 percent reported higher prices, while less than 4 percent reported lower prices. Steel, aluminum, and gas and oil were up most. Chicago area employers boosted white-collar salaries and wages about 9.5 percent in 1980, up from 8 percent in 1979. Another rise of 9.5 percent is seen for 1981. Retail sales Customer traffic at big retailers has been heavy on weekends. Nevertheless, most customers are buying very cautiously, especially when installment credit is required. Worried retailers are promoting specially-priced merchandise heavily, a practice reminiscent of the 1974. Christmas season. Stocks had been held down intentionally, but there may be need for liquidation sales in January. Motor vehicles Sales of cars and trucks remain below expected levels, especially for Chrysler. Dealers are in jeopardy again, partly because of the rapidly rising cost of floor planning. A major Milwaukee bank has withdrawn from floor planning entirely. Most banks have raised rates on consumer vehicle loans, and more are restricting loans to customers or are taking other restrictive measures. Observers believe that first quarter output schedules will be reduced. Purchases of vehicles by business are fairly strong. Capital goods. No revival is yet apparent in producer equipment. Backlogs have leveled off in some cases, but continue to decline overall. Demand for components needed for maintenance has increased moderately. Hopes are growing for an improvement in farm equipment sales in the spring. Construction equipment remains at a very low ebb. Several plants have been closed temporarily and some permanently. Steel Deliveries of steel are up significantly and will continue at an unproved level into the new year. Demand for oil and gas country items is well in excess of capacity. Sheet orders are on extended lead times, while other lead times are normal. More bidding is being done on structural steel. Some of the improvement in steel demand represents a desire of companies to rebuild depleted inventories to protect their LIFO base. Housing Mortgage rates have moved into the 15.5 to 16 percent range with very few transactions taking place. The inventory of finished and semifinished houses is low, but builders have been preparing tracts of land. Nonresidential Contracts for caissons and bidding on structural steel suggest a continued high level of construction for office buildings, hotels, and luxury apartments in Chicago's downtown area. Other major cities report similar trends on a smaller scale. An overhang of unrented space is reported for the suburbs, however. Substantial contracts are also being let for renovations of existing office buildings and hotels. Fuel Fuel supplies appear adequate for the winter, but analysts expect severe trouble next year if the Iraq-Iran war is not settled by April 1. A crisis is certain if the war spreads. Estimates of the rise in oil prices next year have been raised. Natural gas is increasingly looked to as the nation's best energy hope for the years ahead. Canada and Mexico have surpluses, and domestic supplies are being augmented by findings of huge quantities of gas below the 15,000 foot level. Municipal finance State and local governments are under pressure to cut outlays to reduce budget deficits. At least one governor has frozen hirings. Tax receipts, especially gasoline taxes, have been running below projections, and tax increases may be needed. In Chicago, newly organized militant fire and police unions, already among the highest paid anywhere, are threatening to strike to get increases equal to the rise in the CPI.