Weakness in housing and auto sales has darkened an otherwise strengthening economic picture in the District. Retail sales were up in real terms, factory payrolls advanced notably, and nonfarm employment accelerated. Rapidly rising interest rates, however, have about shut down housing starts, and auto dealers express concern over slumping sales. Consumer Spending and Inventories Stores were crowded with customers, and parking lots were overflowing in retail shopping malls and stores after Thanksgiving. Business volume exceeded expectations of many merchants in the District as gross sales were up over the previous year, even allowing for inflation. The customer is not giving much consideration to prime rate advances or other financial news, although one report indicates reduced credit sales. Retailers in central Florida and eastern Tennessee attribute the strong sales to heavy promotions. Special buys are also helping to lure potential customers. This year's Christmas buying season is a full week shorter than last year, although many merchants began Christmas advertising before Thanksgiving. The shortened period may hurt impulse buying. A southern Mississippi merchant notes selective buying of practical items. High- priced quality merchandise, such as televisions and stereos, is selling well. A major department store's strongest sales were in furs, jewelry, high-quality apparel, and items with a western touch. Specialty store proprietors report good sales of investment-priced items. People want something that will last. Retailers catering to the luxury market and discounters selling top-quality goods seem to be doing better than mass merchandisers and low-end discounters, whose customers are the hardest hit by inflation. Retailers report inventory stockpiles up as much as 10 percent over the same period last year in anticipation of a heavier-than-usual post-Thanksgiving Christmas crunch. Auto dealers are encountering difficulties as high interest rates and buyer resistance to price increases draw down sales. One dealer reports that the only small cars available from the manufacturer are loaded with expensive options. Many prospective buyers are failing to qualify for loans under current interest rates. Dealers expect conditions to persist through December but are optimistic about 1981. Financial and Construction High construction and financing costs are putting home builders in a bind. New housing starts are down notably throughout the District. The homes that are being built are scaled down and lots are smaller. Interest rates on home loans are pushing 15 percent. The current slowdown is affecting not only detached homes but also condominiums. Condominium conversions have slowed in Florida where many construction projects have been deferred or canceled because of high interest rates. Pre-existing home sales have also slowed there. There are very few large projects on the drawing boards of commercial contractors due to the high cost and limited availability of funds; plus, most lenders are now requiring an equity position. Corporate long-term borrowing in the form of tax-free industrial revenue bonds indexed to the prime rate is becoming more prevalent. Employment and Industry At least through October, the high interest rates have not adversely affected employment. Gains in manufacturing employment were widespread, but levels were still well below those of last year. Worker recalls lifted primary metals employment, and the machinery and paper industries registered strong increases. Services and trade also showed solid employment advances. Rising factory employment and a boost in hourly earnings have caused considerable increases in manufacturing payrolls. We have received mixed reports about the tourist industry at this time. The recession in other parts of the country is being reflected in central Florida as attendance at major attractions there was off 25 percent from last November. In south Florida, however, bookings at a luxury hotel are 30 percent ahead of last year, perhaps indicating the affluence of the international visitors in that area. October was characterized as the biggest month ever for tourists in New Orleans. Agriculture Farm income prospects dimmed further. Prices received by farmers declined in mid-November for the second consecutive month. A downturn in prices for meat, citrus crops, and cotton was partially offset by higher prices for grains, eggs, peanuts, tobacco, and vegetables. Falling livestock prices and high feed costs influenced farmers to reduce their breeding stock. Outstanding farm loans at District banks continued well above year-ago levels during October, suggesting a slowdown in rates of repayment.